.ig
              Copyright (C) 1989 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.
..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE BLUEFISH-PATE A "15 Jul 88" 1989
.RZ "SMOKED BLUEFISH PATE" "Pate with smoked bluefish and cream cheese"
This touched-up version of something that appeared
in the local paper a few years ago is really 
more of an upscale clam dip than it is a pat\z\(aae.
It is certainly the easiest pat\z\(aee you'll ever make.
.IH "serves 6"
.IG "6 oz" "smoked bluefish" "200 g"
.IG "2 oz" "cream cheese" "50 g"
.IG "2 oz" "unsalted butter" "50 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "sour cream" "25 ml"
.IG "dash" "Worcestershire Sauce"
.IG "" "freshly ground black pepper"
.PH
.SK 1
Butter and cream cheese should be at room temperature.
.SK 2
Strip the skin off the bluefish and break
the filet into pieces that your food 
processor can manage.
.SK 3
Put the fish, butter, sour cream, and cream
cheese into the food processor (using the
sharp, bottom-hugging blade) and blend until just blended.
(Don't overdo it!)
.SK 4
Season with the Worcestershire sauce and pepper. Serve.
.NX
This pat\z\(aae is classically served on top of the
Cape Cod Potato Chip (preferably ``Waves,'' the
ridged variety), a hand-fried local specialty
famous for its firm-yet-crispy feel.
.PP
Smoked bluefish has become fairly easy to get
here in New England, but this recipe should accommodate
just about any kind of smoked fish.
The drier the fish, the better it is for this purpose.
Smoked fish that has been heavily salted (e.g. 
Finnan haddie) will not do.
.PP
Be careful not to over-process or you'll separate the butter.
.PP
Bluefish pat\z\(aae will keep for about a week under
refrigeration. Remove from refrigerator \(12 hour before serving.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Richard Curtis
Apollo Computer, Chelmsford, MA, 01824 USA
r...@apollo.com        apollo!roc
