.ig
             Copyright (C) 1989 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.
..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHOC-MUFFINS-2 B "18 Jul 88" 1989
.RZ "LEBUS' CHOCOLATE CHIP MUFFINS" "Huge, Hearty Chocolate Chip Muffins"
One of the well-known food trucks on the University of Pennsylvania
campus during my undergraduate days was an old painted school bus called
LeBus. In addition to serving wonderful soups, salads, and sandwiches
they often had these huge, delicious chocolate chip muffins. A few years
ago, the LeBus owners abandoned the old school bus for a more upscale
restaurant of the same name across the street from where the bus used
to be parked. Although their menu expanded, it was never quite the
same. Before I graduated, I made sure to get their muffin recipe.
These muffins are hearty, unlike the supersweet, fluffy chocolate chip
muffins usually sold in bakeries.
.IH "Makes 12\-18"
.SH                DRY
.IG "5 2/3 cups" "unbleached flour," "600 g"
(use all white or up to half whole wheat)
.IG "11/3 cups" "sugar" "250 g"
.IG "4 tsp" "baking soda" "20 ml"
.IG "2\(12 tsp" "salt" "7.5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "cinnamon" "5 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "rolled oats," "40 g"
(not instant)
.IG "1 2/3 cups" "chocolate chips" "300 g"
.SH                WET
.IG "2" "large eggs"
.IG "1/3 cup" "vegetable oil" "80 ml"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "orange juice concentrate" "40 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "buttermilk" "500 ml"
.IG "2\(12 oz" "evaporated milk" "75 ml"
(about one-half of a small can)
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 350 175 .
Line muffin tins with paper liners, or grease the tins with solid
vegetable shortening.
.SK 2
In a medium size bowl, sift together: flour, sugar, baking soda, salt, and
cinnamon. Stir in oats.
.SK 3
In another large  bowl, beat eggs with oil. Stir in orange juice
concentrate, buttermilk and evaporated milk until well blended.
.SK 4
Gradually add dry ingredients to wet, mixing until all dry ingredients are
absorbed. Don't overbeat. The batter will be fairly thick.
Fold in the chocolate chips. 
.SK 5
Fill muffin tins to heaping. These muffins are supposed to be really
BIG! Even with the tins heaped full of batter, you may have extra.
Make some more muffins, or bake the extra in a loaf pan.
.SK 6
Bake for about 40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center
of a muffin comes out clean. Serve warm.
.NX
The original recipe given to me by one of the LeBus workers was for
6 dozen muffins. I basically just divided the recipe by 6, which
seemed to work fine.
.PP
The batter works well if baked in loaf pans instead of muffin tins.
You probably need to bake the loaves longer; use the toothpick test
for doneness.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty: 
moderate (take care not to overmix).
.I Time:
15\-20 minutes preparation, 40 minutes baking.
.I Precision:
Measure the ingredients.
.WR
Sharon E. Perl
M.I.T. Laboratory for Computer Science, Cambridge, Massachusetts
sha...@lcs.mit.edu
