.ig
              Copyright (C) 1989 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.
..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE OAXACA-NUTS S "17 Jul 88" 1989
.RZ "OAXACA BAR NUTS" "Peanuts in garlic and chile peppers"
These are the only things I ever gained weight on, and so had to
stop making them.  They are addictive, but surely they are
healthful, right down to the garlic.  Enjoy!  This is adapted
from a recipe by Ron Johnson.
.PP
``Oaxaca'' is pronounced ``wa-HOCK-a.'' It is the name of a state in the
north of Mexico.
.IH "Serves 4\-8"
.IG "1 lb" "raw shelled peanuts" "500 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "vegetable oil" "25 ml"
.IG "8" "cloves garlic,"
slightly flattened and peeled
.IG "8" "small dried red chiles"
(optional)
.IG "1 tsp" "chili powder" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 300 150 .
Put oil in a large frying pan (if
you don't have a large pan make the nuts in two batches)
and place over medium heat.
.SK 2
Add garlic and chile and cook, stirring and squashing down the
garlic to release juices, until garlic starts to turn gold.  Add
nuts, turn heat up to high and fry 3 minutes, turning and tossing
constantly.
.SK 3
Add chili powder and salt, and cook another minute, continuing to
toss and turn.  Don't overcook or the chili powder will burn.
Pour out onto a cookie sheet.  Bake 15 minutes.  Let cool to room
temperature, then store in an airtight container.
.SK 4
The garlic and chiles can be removed if you like--I leave them in
because the garlic tastes maybe even better than the nuts.  These
are at their best after a day, and will keep for several weeks.
.NX
These little goodies are great with cocktails, beer, or just as a
snack.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 day aging.
.I Precision:
Measure the ingredients.
.WR
Ken Davis
Letterman Army Medical Center, San Francisco, California, USA
kdavis@lamc
