.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Summer asparagus soup
Message-ID: <12338@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 12 Feb 88 06:20:26 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, California, USA
Lines: 71
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE ASPARAG-SOUP-1 SPV "9 Mar 87" 1988
.RZ "SUMMER ASPARAGUS SOUP" "A light and simple asparagus soup"
Every summer, it seems, 
the grocery stores are glutted with cheap asparagus. Most of the classical
recipes for asparagus soup produce a hearty winter-style soup.
Here's a simple recipe for a delicious, light, thin soup that is more in
keeping with the time of the year that the glut occurs. You can leave out
the chicken broth to make it a meatless soup, but it does require egg yolks.
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "butter" "30 ml"
.IG "1" "onion,"
chopped
.IG "1\(12 lbs" "fresh asparagus" "700 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "flour" "30 ml"
.IG "6 cups" "boiling water" "1.5 l"
.IG "2 tsp" "salt" "10 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "rich chicken broth" "60 ml"
(optional)
.IG "2" "egg yolks"
.IG "\(12 cup" "milk" "120 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the butter in a pan big enough to cook the soup. Saut\z\(aae the onions
for a few minutes, until transparent but not brown. 
.SK 2
Meanwhile, slice the asparagus into thin slices. 
Now add the sliced asparagus pieces to
the onions and continue to saut\z\(aae (over medium to medium-high heat) for
15 minutes, until most of the moisture has steamed out of the asparagus and the
mixture has just barely started to brown.
.SK 3
Add the flour to the onion/asparagus mixture and stir well to coat each piece
with some flour. Cook for 2 or 3 more minutes over medium-high heat.
.SK 4
Dump the boiling water into the asparagus mixture. Add the (optional)
chicken broth and the salt. Simmer for 1 hour.
.SK 5
Strain out the cooked asparagus, leaving behind a thin yellow-green soup.
.SK 6
Thicken the soup with the 2 egg yolks.
Add the milk and reheat the soup to
serving temperature. Add salt and fresh-ground white pepper to taste.
Serve immediately.
.NX
The slicing disk on a food processor does an excellent job of slicing the
asparagus for this recipe. You can use a food mill, a china cap, or an
ordinary sieve to strain the cooked asparagus out of the broth. 
.PP
Don't try to make this soup as a low-salt soup by leaving out the salt.
It will taste like dishwater if you cook the asparagus for an hour without
salt. Don't try to skimp on time by leaving the cooked asparagus in the
broth unstrained. It will ruin the texture.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate (thickening soup with egg yolks is not a beginner's skill).
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 1 hour simmering, 5 minutes finishing.
.I Precision:
Approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
reid@decwrl.dec.com	{decvax,sun,ucbvax,cbosgd,pyramid}!decwrl!reid
