.ig
From: kyrimis@tilt.UUCP (Kriton Kyrimis)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Greek "avgolemono" egg/lemon chicken soup
Date: 3 Jan 86 03:45:58 GMT
Organization: Princeton University
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE AVGOLEMONO SP "26 Dec 85" 1986
.RZ "CHICKEN SOUP AVGOLEMONO" "Greek style egg & lemon chicken soup"
.I "Avgolemono"
in greek means "egg and lemon" and is the most popular technique for
preparing soup in Greece. So much so, that unless stated otherwise,
when one talks of soup, one means avgolemono soup. What follows is a
recipe for my favourite, chicken soup, but feel free to substitute 
any kind of meat or fish broth for the chicken.
.IH "Serves four -hungry- people"
.IG "64 oz" "chicken broth" "2 l"
(You can get away with instant broth, but make sure it is of
good quality. I usually use Knorr Chicken Bouillon cubes)
.IG "4 Tbsp" "white rice" "50 g"
(Unconverted\(em\fInot\fR Uncle Ben's!!!)
.IG "2" "eggs"
(large, or use 3 small or medium eggs)
.IG "1" "lemon"
.IG "\(12 Tbsp" "salt" "7.5 ml"
(or more to taste)
.PH
.SK 1
Bring the broth to a boil, and add the rice and salt. Let rice cook for
15\-20 minutes.
.SK 2
Remove pot from stove and let it cool for a while.
.SK 3
Separate the whites from the egg-yolks, and beat the whites in a large bowl,
until they thicken a little. Add the yolks and the juice of the lemon, and
beat until you get a uniform mixture.
.SK 4
Now
.I carefully,
using a ladle, pour some of the warm broth into the egg mixture, while
beating continuously. When your bowl is full, pour the contents back into
the remaining broth, and stir until you get a uniform mixture.
.SK 5
Now serve and, I hope, enjoy!
.NX
The process of steps 3 and 4 is known in greek as "avgokomma", and describes
both this process and what will happen if you are not very careful\(emthe egg
will coagulate and spoil everything! In order to avoid such an unfortunate
occurrence, you must let the broth cool a little before adding the egg. This
can easily be done by starting to beat the eggs only after you have removed
the broth from the stove, thus giving time to the broth to cool. However, if
you're in a hurry, you can pour a small glass of cold water into the broth
(which will obviously make the soup more diluted). The broth must be poured
slowly into the egg and lemon mixture, but the two must be blended quickly
(use of an electric mixer is recommended).
.PP
The original recipe does not require beating the whites separately, so
you can simply beat the eggs whole until the whites blend with the yolks,
and then add the lemon. If you prepare the eggs this way, the soup will be
a little less smooth.
.PP
The soup can be kept in the refrigerator for a day or two. Be careful not to
bring it to a boil when re-heating it, because the egg will coagulate. 
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate (handling of eggwhites in soup takes experience).
.I Time:
30 minutes.
.I Precision:
Approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Kriton Kyrimis
Princeton University, Computer Science Dept.
princeton!tilt!kyrimis
"I reversed the polarity of the neutron flow..."
