.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mjo@smokey.ua.oz.au (Michael Oudshoorn)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Barmi Goreng
Message-ID: <12371@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 6 Mar 88 09:48:17 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: University of Adelaide, South Australia
Lines: 72
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE BARMI-GORENG M "29 Oct 87" 1988
.RZ "BEP'S BARMI GORENG" "A tasty Indonesian dish"
This is a recipe that my mother, Bep, has perfected.  I have no idea where the
recipe originated from but it is a great dish that she has perfected over the
years.  The leftovers are great next day, hot or cold.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "4 oz" "boemboe nasi goreng" "50 g"
(dehydrated vegetables and spices)
.IG "\(14 tsp" "sambal oedang kering" "1 ml"
(pepper condiment)
.IG "2 tsp" "ketjap benteng manis" "10 ml"
(sweet soy sauce)
.IG "\(14 tsp" "sambal oelek, " "1 ml"
(hot pepper condiment)
.IG "1 lb" "peeled tomatoes" "425 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "Chinese noodles" "250 g"
.IG "1 lb" "mince beef" "500 g"
.IG "\(14 lb" "middle bacon" "100 g"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "tomato paste" "30 g"
.IG "1" "medium onion"
.PH
.SK 1
Soak the boemboe nasi goreng in hot water.
.SK 2
Dice and brown the onion, whilst boiling the noodles in another container.
.SK 3
Add mince and diced bacon to cooked onions, and brown.
.SK 4
To soaked the boemboe nasi goreng
add tomatoes, sambal oedang kering, sambal oelek and ketjak benteng manis; 
mix well.  More spices can be added to taste.
.SK 5
Drain the noodles.
.SK 6
Add tomato paste and Chinese noodles to cooked mince. Mix together.
.SK 7
Bring to even heat and serve.
.NX
Editor's note: this recipe is unique in the history of alt.gourmand in that
virtually none of the ingredients is available in an ordinary North American
grocery store. However, with a certain amount of difficulty I was able to
find all of the ingredients in specialty food stores nearby (though
admittedly I live in a wonderland of ethnic grocery stores and specialty
markets.) The 
recipe is so delicious that it's worth including even though most readers
will not be able to find the ingredients to make it.
North Americans can read
"ground beef" for "mince beef" and "bacon" for "middle bacon".
You can make an interesting substitute for this dish by using Mexican
seasonings instead of Indonesian; the flavor will not be at all authentic
but some of the spirit is preserved.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK
.WR
Michael Oudshoorn
Department of Computer Science,
The University of Adelaide,
South Australia.
ACSnet: mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz
