.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@decwrl (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Margaret Rudkin's stuffing
Message-ID: <6526@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 21 Nov 86 04:46:41 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
Lines: 66
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE BREAD-STUFF-1 S "19 Nov 86" 1986
.RZ "MARGARET RUDKIN'S BREAD STUFFING" "A stuffing recipe from the founder of Pepperidge Farm"
Margaret Rudkin founded the Pepperidge Farm bakery as a health-food venture
in 1937 because one of her children was allergic to white bread. Her family
lived on a farm in Connecticut that had a lot of pretty sourgum trees that
the locals called ``pepperidge trees,'' hence the name. Rudkin's
pediatrician asked to buy loaves of her whole-grain bread for other children
with white-flour allergies, and so the business was started. If you look in
cookbooks published in that era, they mostly say that it is
impossible to make bread from whole grains because the flour was too coarse
and the bread would not hold together. In its time, this was a very risky
venture.
.PP
In 1963, Margaret Rudkin published a cookbook with all of her family
recipes. It's called \fIThe Margaret Rudkin Pepperidge Farm Cookbook\fR,
(Atheneum Press). It is a rare book, and has been out of print for 20
years. In 1965 Grosset and Dunlap republished it with much wider
distribution, but that book is also out of print.
.PP
In general I have found that the recipes in this book are nearly identical
to the products sold by the Pepperidge Farm bakery, and it's a lot of fun to
make your own. Here is her recipe for Thanksgiving turkey stuffing.
.IH "Serves 8"
.IG "1 lb" "bread" "500 g"
.IG "1" "white onion,"
chopped fine
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "" "fresh-ground pepper"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "sage" "2.5 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "thyme" "2.5 ml"
.IG "\(14 lb" "butter," "125 g"
melted
.PH
.SK 1
On the weekend before Thanksgiving, set aside some homemeade
bread, to dry out. Leave it unwrapped so that it will dry thoroughly.
.SK 2
Thanksgiving morning, cut the bread into thick slices and remove the crust
from each slice. Dip each slice into cold water, and wring out carefully.
After squeezing each slice dry, crumble it into a large bowl
by rubbing between your hands.
.SK 3
Add salt, pepper, sage, thyme, and chopped onion to the bowl, and stir
gently. Pour on the melted butter, and toss like a salad.
.NX
Rudkin's notes say ``taste and sniff as you go, because you might like more
sage or thyme.''
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
4 days drying bread, 10 minutes preparation.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun,pyramid}!decwrl!reid
