.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: guarino@decwrl (Loretta Guarino Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Breakfast casserole
Message-ID: <2593@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 26 Apr 86 21:39:52 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Software Laboratory
Lines: 69
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE BREAKFAST-CAS M "8 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "BREAKFAST CASSEROLE" "A baked egg, sausage, and bread casserole"
I got this recipe from a recipe chain letter when I was in graduate school.
``Send 5 recipes to the person whose name is at the top of the list, and
then add your name to the bottom of the list and send it to 5 friends.''
I ended up getting about 30 recipes that way; this is the only one that I
still make. It's wonderful. The person who mailed it to me is named Ruth Ann
Swart. I've changed it slightly because I don't like to leave raw egg
mixtures in the refrigerator overnight, as the original recipe called for.
.IH "serves 6\-8"
.IG "8" "large eggs"
.IG "2\(12 cups" "milk" "600 ml"
.IG "3 cups" "bread cubes" "200 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "dry mustard" "5 ml"
.IG "2 lb" "bulk sausage" "1 kg"
(see note)
.IG "1 lb" "grated cheddar" "200 g"
(or more to taste)
.IG "\(12 lb" "fresh mushrooms" "200 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Brown the sausage in a frypan; drain off excess fat. Set aside.
.SK 2
In a large bowl, beat the eggs. Add milk, mustard, and bread cubes.
If you like salty dishes, add a teaspoon of salt.
Wait a few minutes for the bread cubes to absorb the milk and eggs. Stir in
80% of the grated cheese.
.SK 3
Add the cooked and drained sausage. Mix well. Pour into a casserole dish of
the size that you would use to make lasagna (about 
.AB "9\(mu13 inches)." "20\(mu30 cm)."
.SK 4
 Slice the mushrooms, and arrange the slices on top of the casserole.
Sprinkle the remaining 20% of the cheese over the top of the mushrooms.
.SK 5
Bake for 45 minutes at
.TE 350 175 .
Let cool 10 minutes before serving.
.NX
You can cut up your own bread for the bread cubes, or else buy a package of
commercial poultry stuffing. Try to get unflavored bread cubes if you buy
them.
.PP
For the sausage, try Spanish chorizo, English Cumberland sausage, or
American pork whole-hog sausage. I usually use a mixture of beef chorizo and
Jimmy Dean pork sausage. Any spicy pork- or beef-based sausage will work.
.PP
For the cheese, the best bet is Canadian sharp white cheddar. You can
substitute any cheddar, or Leicester, or Cantal, or for that matter
anything you want. I've never tried it with Swiss cheeses.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking and cooling.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Loretta Guarino Reid
guarino@decwrl.ARPA	decwrl!guarino
DEC Western Software Laboratory, Palo Alto CA
