.ig
Path: decwrl!reid
From: loosemore@esunix (Sandra Loosemore)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Swedish rye bread
Message-ID: <6182@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 31 Oct 86 11:37:18 GMT
Sender: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Evans and Sutherland Computer co.
Lines: 84
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE BREAD-RYE B "21 May 86" 1986
.RZ "SWEDISH RYE BREAD" "A sweet, dark whole-grain rye bread"
This recipe comes from my great-grandmother, who emigrated from Sweden and
brought this recipe with her.
It makes a sweet, dark bread, and (like most whole-grain
breads) it tends to be a bit heavy.
.IH "Makes 3 loaves"
.IG "2 cups" "milk" "500 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "water" "250 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "brown sugar" "100 g"
.IG "\(12 oz" "dry yeast" "14 g"
(two packages)
.IG "6 cups" "rye flour" "600 g"
(approximate)
.IG "3 cups" "white flour" "300 g"
(approximate)
.IG "\(12 cup" "granulated sugar" "100 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "vegetable oil" "125 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "dark molasses" "60 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "anise seeds," "10 ml"
crushed
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Scald the milk and combine it with the water and brown sugar in a very
large bowl.  (You need something that holds at least 4 or 5
.AB "quarts" "liters" ".)"
When the mixture is lukewarm, dissolve the yeast in it, then stir in
.AB "2 cups" "200 g"
rye flour and
.AB "1 cup" "100 g"
white flour to make a paste.
.SK 2
Let the mixture rise in a warm place until it is light and foamy.  This
usually takes about 30 minutes to an hour.  Check it frequently\(emit can
really make a mess if it rises enough to overflow the bowl.  (I'm sure they
could make a great horror movie about a gigantic blob of bread dough that
keeps getting bigger and bigger as it consumes everything in its
path....)
.SK 3
Stir in the granulated sugar, oil, molasses, anise seed and salt, and
enough flour to make a stiff dough, using 2 parts rye to 1 part white.
Knead the dough for about 5 minutes, or until it is smooth and elastic,
adding more flour to keep it from sticking to your hands.
.SK 4
Clean and grease the bowl.  Put the dough in the bowl, turning it to
grease all sides.  Cover the bowl loosely with a clean towel and let the
dough rise until it's doubled in bulk.  Punch it down and let rise until
double again.
.SK 5
Divide the dough into three loaves and put in greased pans.  (I usually
make round loaves and bake them on cookie sheets.)  Cover with the towel
and let rise until double again.
.SK 6
Bake for about 45 minutes at
.TE 350 175 .
Because of the high sugar content, this bread can burn rather easily;
watch it closely so it doesn't get too dark.
.NX
Rye flour can be a little hard to find these days.  You may have to visit a
store that specializes in natural foods.  Avoid the kind that is very
coarsely ground with big chunks of bran in it, though; this doesn't seem to
have any gluten at all in it, and since the proportion of rye flour is so
high in this recipe, the texture of the bread will come out all wrong.  You
need something that looks more like ordinary flour.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, several hours rising, 1 hour baking and cooling.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Sandra Loosemore
Evans & Sutherland Computer Corporation, Salt Lake City
{decwrl, utah-gr!uplherc}!esunix!loosemor
