.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: tovah@cepu.uucp (Tovah Hollander)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Charoset
Message-ID: <9191@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Apr 87 06:29:32 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 59
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHAROSET S "16 Mar 87" 1987
.RZ "CHAROSET" "Traditional Seder accompaniment"
This paste-like, sweet spread is a prescribed part of the traditional Seder.
Its mortar-like consistency is intended to remind Jews of the bricks and
mortar our ancestors labored with as slaves in Egypt. Quite incidentally, it
is delicious and tastes wonderful spread on matzah. This is the traditional
charoset from the Ashkenazic (Eastern European) Jewish tradition; very
different, but equally delicious, charoset recipes, using such ingredients
as dates, raisins, and sesame, can be found in the various Sephardic
communities (e.g., Yemenite, Persian, Turkish, Moroccan, etc.).
.IH "2 cups" "5 dl"
.IG "1\(12 cups" "finely chopped nuts" "150 g"
(e.g., almonds, walnuts, filberts)
.IG "2 Tbsp" "sugar or honey" "30 ml"
(or a mixture)
.IG "1\-2 cups" "chopped or grated apples" "100\-200 g" 
(about 4\-6 medium apples)
.IG "\(12 tsp" "cinnamon" "2.5 ml"
.IG "" "sweet wine"
.PH
.SK 1
Mix nuts, sugar, honey, apples and cinnamon together until
well-blended.
.SK 2
Add wine slowly until the texture resembles a thick paste, like mortar.
.SK 3
Taste and adjust cinnamon, sugar, wine amounts.
.NX
This recipe yields about enough for the Seder table.
If you like this as much as we do, you will want to make more.
.PP
Some people prefer a chunkier, less smoothly-blended charoset.
.PP
If you live in an area where Kosher for Passover ground nuts
(\fInot\fR groundnuts) are available, they save a lot of
chopping time and lead to a smoother consistency.
If you're lucky enough to have a Kosher for Passover food
processor, you will also save a lot of arm exercise.
And remember, kids love to chop!
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes to several hours, depending on how much
hand-chopping you have to do.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Tovah Hollander
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California USA
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,seismo!hao}!cepu!tovah
