.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: wolit@mhuxd.uucp (Jan Wolitzky)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Amaretto chocolate cheesecake
Message-ID: <8688@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 20 Mar 87 05:30:35 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey, USA
Lines: 114
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHEESECAKE-7 D "6 Feb 87" 1987
.RZ "CHEESECAKE 7" "Amaretto-amaretti chocolate cheesecake"
This is adapted from
.I "Maida Heatter's Book of Great Chocolate Desserts,"
(Knopf 1980).
It won me a blue ribbon at the Martha's Vineyard Agricultural Exhibition
and Fair in 1983.
If you ever find yourself in front of a firing squad, this makes an
unbeatable last request.
.IH "Serves 16"
.SH		CRUST
.IG "7 oz" "Amaretti" "200 g"
(see note)
.IG "2 Tbsp" "granulated sugar" "30 ml"
.IG "1 oz" "unsweetened chocolate" "30 g"
(1 square)
.IG "5 Tbsp" "sweet butter" "75 g"
.SH		FILLING
.IG "6 oz" "semisweet chocolate" "180 g"
.IG "7 oz" "Amaretti" "200 g"
.IG "4 oz" "almond paste" "120 g"
.IG "1/3 cup" "Amaretto liqueur" "8 cl"
.IG "1\(12 lb" "cream cheese" "700 g"
at room temperature
.IG "\(14 cup" "granulated sugar" "50 g"
.IG "4" "eggs"
(large or extra-large)
.IG "\(12 cup" "heavy cream" "12 cl"
.PH "(CRUST)"
.SK 1
Butter the sides only (not the bottom) of a
.AB "9-inch" "22-cm"
spring-form pan
.AB "(2\(12\-3 inches" "(6\-8 cm"
deep).
.SK 2
Grind the Amaretti very fine in a food processor or blender.
Mix with sugar in a mixing bowl.
.SK 3
Melt the chocolate and butter in the top of a double boiler,
stirring occasionally.
Add the melted mixture to the Amaretti crumbs and sugar and mix thoroughly.
(Don't wash the double boiler;  you'll be using it again in a minute.)
.SK 4
Turn the mixture into the prepared pan.
With your fingers, distribute it evenly over the bottom and press it down
into a very firm, compact layer.
Refrigerate while you prepare the filling.
.PH "(FILLING)"
.SK 1
Adjust rack 1/3 up from the bottom of the oven and preheat to
.TE 350 175 .
.SK 2
Partially melt chocolate in the top of a double boiler, then uncover and
stir until completely melted.
Remove the top of the double boiler and set aside to cool.
.SK 3
Break the Amaretti coarsely into a bowl and set aside.
.SK 4
Cut the almond paste into small pieces, and beat on low speed with an
electric mixer, while gradually adding the Amaretto liqueur.
Beat until thoroughly mixed, and set aside.
.SK 5
Beat the cream cheese with an electric mixer until smooth.
Add the sugar and beat until smooth again.
Add the almond paste-Amaretto mixture and beat until thoroughly mixed.
Add the melted chocolate and beat well again.
Add the eggs one at a time, beating at low speed until they are
incorporated after each addition.
Add the heavy cream and beat until smooth.
Add the coarsely broken Amaretti and stir gently only to mix.
.SK 6
Turn into the prepared pan, pouring the mixture over the bottom crust.
Rotate the pan gently to level the batter.
(Don't worry if the mixture comes almost to the top; it won't run over.)
.SK 7
Bake 45 minutes.
It will seem soft and not done, but don't bake any more;
it will become firm when chilled.
The top of the cake is supposed to look bumpy because of the large chunks
of Amaretti.
.SK 8
Let cool completely at room temperature, then carefully remove the sides of
the pan and refrigerate the cake (still on the bottom of the pan) for 4 to
6 hours, or overnight.
.NX
Amaretti are Italian almond-flavored wafer cookies. They are usually sold in
metal tins with the wafers wrapped in packages of two inside the tin.
You can also buy Amarettini, which are the same flavor but much smaller and
not individually wrapped. Since you're going to grind some of the wafers and
break the others into chunks, it doesn't matter which size you start with.
One brand is Amaretti di Saronna, Lazzaroni & Co.
.PP
This is an expensive cake, both in terms of the cost of the ingredients
($15\-$20) and the number of calories.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate to hard.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 45 minutes baking, overnight cooling.
.I Precision:
measure ingredients carefully.
.WR
Jan Wolitzky
AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey, USA
ihnp4!mhuxd!wolit
