.ig
Path: decwrl!reid
From: faigin@sdcrdcf (Daniel P. Faigin)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Bo's cheesecake
Message-ID: <6004@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 17 Oct 86 16:46:56 GMT
Sender: reid@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: System Development Corporation, Santa Monica CA
Lines: 74
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHEESECAKE-6 D "20 May 86" 1986
.RZ "BO'S CHOCOLATE CHIP CHEESECAKE" "A truly decadent chocolate chip cheesecake"
This recipe came to me from a friend of mine, Bo (pronounced
``boo'') Ture Ahlberg, who would occasionally (read ``whenever we
could persuade him'') bring it into work. Needless to say, it
would be snarfed up immediately.
.IH "Makes 1 cheesecake"
.IG "24 oz" "cream cheese," "700 g"
broken into pieces
.IG "4" "eggs,"
separated
.IG "2 Tbsp" "vanilla extract" "30 ml"
(do not use artificial vanilla)
.IG "1 cup" "sour cream" "250 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "brown sugar," "50 g"
or to taste
.IG "1 lb" "chocolate chips" "450 g"
.IG "1 lb" "graham cracker crumbs" "450 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "butter," "125 g"
melted.
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat the oven to
.TE 325 160 .
.SK 2
Prepare the batter: place the egg yolks in a food processor for 5 seconds,
then add the cream cheese and beat until smooth. Add the brown sugar and
vanilla and process for several minutes, or until the batter is very smooth.
Add the sour cream, then 
beat the eggwhites and fold into the cheese mixture. Set aside.
.SK 3
Prepare the crust: soften butter and combine with graham cracker crumbs. Mix
until fully blended, \fIe.g.\fR they will form a ball when squeezed in your
hand or by a spoon. Pat the crust into the sides and bottom of a springform
pan about
.AB "9 inches" "22 cm"
in diameter.
.SK 4
Spread a generous layer of chips on the bottom of the pan, and
then pour the batter into the pan.
Add another generous layer of chips to the top of the cake.
.SK 5
Place the filled pan into the preheated oven.
Baking time will vary from about 30 minutes to 2 hours. Cooking
time depends on whether you want a soft, gooey ``New York'' style
cheesecake (shorter) to a fluffy ``souffl\z\(aae''-like cheesecake
(longer). The longer you cook it, the fluffier it gets.
.SK 6
When the cake starts to rise like a souffl\z\(aae, start checking to see if
it is done. It will just about double in volume, and should not flow over the
sides of the pan. If the cake shimmers like Jello when shaken, it is done.
Alternatively, if a knife inserted comes out clean, the cake is overcooked:
the knife should be very lightly coated with batter.
.NX
Bo prefers to use Nestl\z\(aae Mini-Morsel chocolate chips.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, up to 2 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Daniel P. Faigin
System Development Corporation, Santa Monica CA
{akgua allegra ihnp4 hplabs sdcsvax trwrb cbosgd}!sdcrdcf!faigin  
sdcrdcf!faigin@LOCUS.UCLA.EDU
