.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: rfoster@mtuxo.uucp (Robin Harris Foster)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Tarragon chicken
Message-ID: <11519@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 22 Aug 87 08:58:02 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: AT&T Information Systems, Lincroft, New Jersey, USA
Lines: 61
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-TARRAG M "26 Feb 87" 1987
.RZ "CHICKEN TARRAGON" "Saut\z\(aaed chicken with a tarragon cream sauce"
This recipe comes from the little cookbook 
.I "Anodyne Delights,"
a collection of recipes by Barbara Tyne who, along with her husband
Tom, operated the chartered yacht 
.I "Anodyne"
in the Caribbean.  Barbara served this
dish with rice and broccoli tossed with butter, garlic, and Parmesan cheese.  
.IH "Serves 4"
.IG "4" "chicken breasts"      
.IG "3 Tbsp" "butter" "50 g"
.IG "1 cup" "dry vermouth" "25 cl"
.IG "2 tsp" "dijon mustard" "10 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "heavy cream" "25 cl"
.IG "1 tsp" "tarragon" "5 ml"
.IG "pinch" "salt and pepper"
.PH
.SK 1
Remove the skin and bone from the chicken breasts.  Pound with
a meat mallet until chicken breast is of even thickness.
.SK 2
Melt the butter in a skillet.  Saut\z\(aae chicken 4 minutes on each side.
Remove the chicken to a warm dish while you prepare the sauce.
.SK 3
Mix the dijon mustard into the vermouth and pour the mixture into the
skillet.  Stir to dissolve the browned bits in the pan. 
Reduce volume of liquid by half over medium heat.
.SK 4
Add the heavy cream and the tarragon.  Stir continuously, 5 to 
10 minutes,  until mixture thickens.   
.SK 5
Arrange the chicken on a serving dish and pour some of the cream sauce over
it.  Serve the remaining sauce on the side.
.NX
For a different flavor, saut\z\(aae 
.AB "\(12 cup" "40 g"
chopped mushrooms before deglazing the skillet with the vermouth.
.PP
If you are daring, you can cook the chicken breasts at the same time you are
making the sauce, using one hand for each. This will make the chicken be
warmer when served.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy if you buy boneless chicken breasts.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Robin Harris Foster
AT&T Information Systems, Lincroft New Jersey, USA
mtuxo!rfoster
