.ig
From: joseph@ubc-medgen (Joseph Sotham)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chicken curry
Date: 7 Mar 86 05:10:43 GMT
Organization: U. of British Columbia, Dept. of Medical Genetics
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-CURRY M "31 Jan 86" 1986
.RZ "MURGH MUSALLAM" "Chicken curry"
This recipe is the real thing.
Throw out your curry powder: you'll never use it again once you've 
tried this recipe. Chicken curry using the real spices cannot be beat!!
.IH "serves 2\-3"
.IG "1" "chicken"
.IG "1 piece" "fresh ginger"
(about
.AB "\(34 inch" "2 cm"
of a ginger root)
.IG "12\-14" "garlic cloves"
.IG "1" "large onion"
.IG "1" "cinnamon stick"
.IG "2" "whole brown cardamom pods"
.IG "4" "whole green cardamom pods"
.IG "1" "whole star anise"
(use all 8 arms and the seeds inside them)
.IG "12\-14" "black peppercorns"
.IG "6\-8" "cloves"
.IG "1 tsp" "turmeric" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "red chili powder" "5 ml"
(or substitute fresh red chilies, diced)
.IG "2" "green chilies"
.IG "\(12 cup" "yogurt" "125 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "oil" "60 ml"
(preferably ghee, if available)
.IG "salt" "to taste"
.IG "" "fresh coriander leaves"
(optional)
.PH
.SK 1
Clean and joint chicken.  If you don't like the skin, remove it.
.SK 2
Mash the ginger into a paste (or chop finely) and mince the garlic.
.SK 3
Heat oil in a large frying pan. Use ``medium high heat''.
.SK 4
Break apart the star anise to release the seeds inside the arms.
To the frypan, add onions, cinnamon stick, cardamom pods, star aniseed,
peppercorns, cloves, garlic and ginger. Be careful not to burn the garlic.
Saut\z\(aae until the onions are cooked but not browned.
.SK 5
Add the chicken, turmeric, and chili powder and cook on a medium heat, 
stirring often.
.SK 6
When the oil starts to separate (the gravy will have oil floating
on its surface), add the yogurt and cook till the chicken is done and
the gravy is thick. Finally, add the fresh coriander leaves.
.NX
This is the basic recipe. Try  varying the whole spice combinations
until you find a favorite.  The recipe doubles well. 
.PP
A cardamom pod is not the same thing as a cardamom seed. Make sure you get
the pods. A pod is about the size of a pea, and contains seeds inside it.
Don't substitute the ground version of any of the whole spices, the effect
will not be the same. And don't use white cardamom pods.
.PP
You may want to remove the smaller whole spices
prior to adding the yogurt so that unwitting guests don't eat them. 
Try the recommended quantity of garlic. The flavour is surprisingly subtle.
More yogurt makes more gravy. Also a longer cooking time.
Vary the amount of chilies to suit your taste. This recipe is medium hot.
I hope this satisfies your mouth-hunger.
The spice quantities may be varied to suit your preferences. 
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy, though timing matters when cooking the onions.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 1\(12 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
measure the oil.
.WR
Joseph Sotham
University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC
joseph@ubc-medgen.cdn
It is better to travel happily than to arrive
