.ig
From: bill@mcomp (Bill Dow)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Micronesian Chicken
Date: 7 Mar 86 05:17:24 GMT
Organization: Micro-Comp Consulting, Dallas, Texas
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-MICRN M "14 Feb 86" 1986
.RZ "MICRONESIAN CHICKEN" "Easy marinated chicken for outdoor BBQ"
This recipe was obtained from a friend of a friend several years ago.  It
has been a hit everytime and is guaranteed to have your downwind neighbors
salivating at your doorstep.
.IH "serves 2\-4"
.IG "4" "chicken breasts"
(leave bones and skin intact)
.IG "3" "lemons"
.IG "1" "medium onion,"
chopped
.IG "12 oz" "beer" "350 ml"
.IG "4 oz" "soy sauce" "120 ml"
.IG "1" "garlic clove,"
mashed or chopped
.PH
.SK 1
Squeeze the juice of the lemons over the chicken and let stand while 
preparing the rest of the marinade.
.SK 2
In a large bowl, combine the beer, soy sauce, chopped onion, and chopped
garlic. Drain the lemon juice from above into this mixture.
.SK 3
Put the chicken in the marinade, cover and refrigerate for 3\-4 hours
minimum.  It's better to marinate overnight. Make sure chicken is covered by
marinade.
.SK 4
Over an OPEN outdoor grill (gas or charcoal), cook the chicken for about
40 minutes turning every 10 minutes or so.  Each time the chicken is turned,
redip the pieces in the marinade.
.NX
More chicken may be added to this recipe; the only limiting factor is that
the chicken be covered with the marinade while in the refrigerator.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes to prepare marinade, overnight in refrigerator, 40 minutes to cook.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Bill Dow
Micro-Comp Consulting, Dallas, Tx.
{texsun!rrm, convex!infoswx}!mcomp!bill
