.ig
Path: glacier!recipes
From: kunz@hplsla (Bob Kunz)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chicken Adobo (Phillipine chicken with garlic)
Message-ID: <5790@glacier.ARPA>
Date: 28 Mar 86 04:27:19 GMT
Sender: recipes@glacier.ARPA
Organization: Hewlett-Packard, Lake Stevens Instrument Division
Lines: 64
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-ADOBO M "30 Mar 85" 1986
.RZ "CHICKEN ADOBO" "Filipino chicken with garlic"
Adobo is the national dish of the Philippines. Most warm-weather countries
have through the centuries developed recipes that preserve food while
flavoring it. This dish is different than many because of its strong
component of vinegar. It is at once sour, salty, and drenched in garlic.
.IH "Serves 4"
.IG "2 lb" "chicken pieces," "1 kg"
cut up or whole
.IG "1" "head of garlic,"
coarsely chopped (yes, an entire head!)
.IG "4 Tbsp" "soy sauce" "50 ml"
(or more to taste)
.IG "1 tsp" "ground black pepper" "5 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "water" "500 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "vinegar" "250 ml"
(rice vinegar or white wine vinegar work best)
.IG "2" "bay leaves"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "cooking oil" "25 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Put vinegar, bay leaves, pepper, soy sauce, and water in a saucepan.
Cover and cook slowly about 15 minutes.
.SK 2
Meanwhile, heat the cooking oil in a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan.
Peel the garlic, break the cloves into chunks, and brown them over
medium-low heat (about 5 minutes).
.SK 3
Add the chicken to the frypan and brown it over medium-high heat (about 5
minutes).
.SK 4
Add the broth to the frypan and simmer, partly covered, until the chicken is
done (about 30 minutes). Do not let it come to a boil.
.SK 5
Remove the bay leaves and serve over rice. This dish is too strongly
flavored to go well with wine; try serving it with beer.
.NX
You can substitute pork for the chicken, or mix the two. In the Philippines
it is the custom to marinate the meat for two days rather before simmering;
with the top-grade meats that are universally available in our grocery
stores, that is not necessary (though it does deepen and enrich the flavor).
To marinate the chicken, mix in the broth and 3 of the garlic cloves
after step 1, then put the chicken in a glass dish and pour the marinade
over it.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
1 hour.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Bob Kunz
{ihnp4!hplabs!hp-pcd, uw-beaver!fluke}!hplsla!kunz
Hewlett-Packard, Lake Stevens Instrument Division
Everett, Washington
