.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kyrimis@Princeton.EDU (Kriton Kyrimis)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Greek Christmas poultry stuffing
Message-ID: <12121@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 15 Nov 87 16:30:06 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Princeton Univ., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
Lines: 73
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-STUFF2 M "8 Sep 87" 1987
.RZ "CHRISTMAS/THANKSGIVING STUFFING" "Holiday stuffing with fruit and nuts"
This is an elaborate version of the type of poultry stuffing made in
Greece.  People there have never heard of bread stuffings and, once you taste
this recipe,
you'll never want to hear about bread stuffings either! I got the recipe
from my mother, who got it from a friend, who got it from her sister-in-law,
who...
.IH "stuffs 5\-6 lbs poultry" "stuffs 2\-3 kg poultry"
.IG "\(12 lb" "ground beef" "250 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "butter" "30 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "uncooked white rice" "100 g"
.IG "1" "poultry liver"
(from the bird you are going to stuff)
.IG "\(12 cup" "pine nuts" "25 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "whole blanched almonds" "60 g"
.IG "10" "pitted prunes"
.IG "\(12 cup" "raisins" "75 g"
.IG "10\-15" "chestnuts"
.PH
.SK 1
Cook the chestnuts:
Cut a groove on each chestnut, and roast them on the stove (if you've got an
electric stove, placing the chestnuts on the burner will do the trick, though
you'll have to do some cleaning afterwards.) When they're done, peel them.
Watch your hands.
.SK 2
Brown the beef with half the butter.
.SK 3
Add the rice, salt and a
little water, and let it cook on low heat, until the water is absorbed.
.SK 4
Boil the liver, mince it and add it into the rice and meat.
.SK 5
Add the almonds, prunes, raisins, chestnuts
(cut in chunks) and pine nuts. Add a small amount of water and let everything
simmer until the water is absorbed.
.SK 6
The stuffing is ready to use. Add the remaining butter and bake it.
I usually wrap
the stuffing in aluminum foil, put it in a separate pan and bake it
along with the chicken. When the chicken is ready, the stuffing is ready too!
.NX
If the chestnut-roasting procedure is to messy for you, then just boil them.
.PP
The amounts in the ingredients list are there for completeness' sake.
You should really interpret them as "a few", "a handful" or
"one small package". The only thing you have to bear in mind is that
putting more prunes will make the stuffing sourer, and putting more
raisins will make it sweeter.
.PP
The original recipe suggested using unpitted prunes. I believe that using
pitted prunes is safer for the teeth!
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
1 hour preparation, 1\-2 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Kriton Kyrimis
Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
kyrimis@princeton.princeton.edu   allegra!princeton!kyrimis
