.ig
From: reid@glacier (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Indian-style yogurt chicken
Date: 7 Mar 86 05:22:32 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Lab
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-YOGURT M "11 Jan 86" 1986
.RZ "YOGURT CHICKEN" "An Indian-style chicken dish with yogurt and red pepper"

This fail-safe recipe yields a delicious Indian-style chicken dish. Serve it
with rice and you have a meal. It makes wonderful leftovers\(emin fact, it
tastes much better as leftovers.
.IH "Serves 4"
.IG "1" "frying chicken"
.IG "\(14 cup" "vegetable oil" "60 ml"
.IG "3" "medium onions"
.IG "2" "garlic cloves"
.IG "1 tsp" "cayenne" "5 ml"
(red pepper)
.IG "1 Tbsp" "coriander" "15 ml"
(or less to taste)
.IG "2 tsp" "masala seasoning" "10 ml"
(see note)
.IG "2 cups" "plain yogurt" "500 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "clarified butter" "60 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "salt" "10 ml"
(or less to taste)
.PH
.SK 1 
First prepare the sauce: Slice or chop the onions.
Using a large heavy frypan that has a lid,
saut\z\(aae the onions in the oil. When they are translucent and
beginning to brown, add the garlic. When its moisture evaporates, add the
cayenne, coriander, and masala seasoning.
Add the yogurt. Lower heat and simmer 7 minutes,
partly covered. Remove from heat.
.SK 2
Cut the chicken into chunks. If you are feeling decadent, then remove the
bones from the chicken to make this a boneless-chicken dish. 
.SK 3
Pure\z\(aae the onion-and-spice mixture in your food processor or food mill.
Don't make it into baby food, but make sure there are no stringy pieces of
onion left in it.
.SK 4
Over medium-high heat, 
heat the clarified butter until it starts to smoke, then dump in the 
cut-up chicken all at once. Stir continuously for 2 minutes, then saut\z\(aae
for 3 more minutes, stirring occasionally.
.SK 5
Add the onion-and-spice pur\z\(aae to the cooking chicken. Add salt. Stir the
mixture until it starts to bubble, then lower heat, cover, and simmer for 30
minutes.
.SK 6
Let cool until ready to serve. The longer you wait, the better it will taste.
.SK 7
Cook some rice to go with it.  Reheat over low heat, and serve.
.NX
Masala seasoning is an Indian ``general-purpose'' seasoning. Serious
Indian cooks make their own, and no two are quite the same. The word
\fImasala\fR means something like ``blend of spices''. Since this dish isn't
trying to be authentically Indian, you can use most any store-bought mixture
that you like, including ``Tandoori'' mixtures, ``curry powders'', etc.
If you want to make your own, try some mixture of cardamom
seeds, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, cumin, and coriander, suitably mixed and
ground.
.PP
If you don't want to use clarified butter you can use any cooking oil.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
\(12 hour preparation, \(12 hour cooking, 1\-24 hours sitting.
.I Precision:
No need to measure, but be respectful of cayenne.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
decwrl!!reid	reid@decwrl.dec.com
