.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kyrimis@princeton.edu (Kriton Kyrimis)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Chick-pea soup
Message-ID: <11555@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 28 Aug 87 03:11:49 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
Lines: 59
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKPEA-SOUP SPV "7 Mar 87" 1987
.RZ "CHICK-PEA SOUP" "Greek style chick-pea soup"
I got this recipe from a Greek cookbook. It is the standard way of cooking
chick peas in Greece.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "1 lb" "chick peas" "500 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "baking soda" "30 ml"
.IG "3\-4" "small onions"
(chopped)
.IG "\(34 cup" "olive oil" "180 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "salt" "10 ml"
.IG "" "lemon juice"
.PH
.SK 1
Soak the chick peas in water overnight.
.SK 2
Drain the chick peas and sprinkle the baking soda on them. Stir them a little
and let them stand for one hour.
.SK 3
Rinse the chick peas with plenty of water. Put them in a pot and cover them
with water. Bring them to a boil, then lower heat to medium.
.SK 4
Skim off the scum that forms on the surface, and then add the onions. Cover,
and cook on low heat for about two hours or until the chick peas are soft.
(If necessary, add some hot water into the pot while the chick peas are
cooking).
.SK 5
Add the olive oil and salt, and cook for a few more minutes.
.SK 6
Serve with a dash of lemon juice, plenty of fresh bread and, if you like,
a chunk of feta cheese on the side.
.NX
At step 3 you're supposed to remove the skin off the chick peas. I was never
able to do it (it comes off only with some difficulty, and you have to do it
for each individual pea), but it doesn't seem to affect the dish adversely.
.PP
You know that the soup is done when the chick peas begin to dissolve,
making the soup rather thick. This might not give the dish a very
attractive appearance, but the taste is an entirely different matter.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
overnight soak, 2\-3 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Kriton Kyrimis
Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New Jersey, USA
princeton!kyrimis

