.ig
From: seb@mtgzy (Sharon Badian)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Kelly's Asian Chicken
Sender: recipes@glacier.ARPA
Date: 7 Mar 86 05:22:32 GMT
Organization: AT&T Information Systems, Holmdel NJ
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHICKEN-ASIAN M "25 Feb 86" 1986
.RZ "KELLY'S ASIAN CHICKEN" "Chicken with garlic and hot peppers"
Another winner from 
.I "The Garlic Lover's Cookbook".
Don't let the amount of garlic scare you.
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "3\(12 lb" "frying chicken," "1.5 kg"
cut into serving pieces
.IG "3 Tbsp" "peanut oil" "50 ml"
.IG "1 head" "garlic,"
peeled and coarsely chopped - and yes that says HEAD. The whole thing.
.IG "2" "hot red peppers,"
small and dried. These are optional.
.IG "\(34 cup" "distilled white vinegar" "180 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "soy sauce" "60 ml"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "honey" "50 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Heat the oil in a large, heavy skillet and brown chicken on all sides (5\-10
minutes). Use medium-high heat.
.SK 2
Add garlic and peppers about 1 minute before the end of the browning process.
.SK 3
Add the remaining ingredients, and cook over medium heat until chicken is
done and sauce has reduced somewhat. This takes about 10 minutes.
.NX
.PP
If you are cooking white and dark meat together, remove the white meat first
or it will dry out.
.PP
Watch that sauce does not burn or boil away.
.PP
When you look in the skillet to see how everything is going and to get
a whiff of the lovely aroma, \fIdo not\fR take a big whiff. The vinegar will
knock you out!
.PP
This recipe won first place at a recent Garlic Cook-off at the Gilroy
Garlic Festival.
.PP
Serve with rice, Chinese noodles or pasta.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
preparation: 5 minutes, cooking: 20 minutes.
.I Precision:
measure vinegar, soy sauce and honey.
.WR
Sharon Badian
AT&T Information Systems, Holmdel, New Jersey
ihnp4!mtgzy!seb
