.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: bandy@lll-crg (Andrew Scott Beals)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chili
Message-ID: <4035@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 4 Jul 86 03:36:36 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore CA
Lines: 82
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHILI-3 M "13 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "ANDY BEALS' CHILI" "Andy's own recipe for meat/bean chili"
This is the descendant of the chili that I've been making since 1974.
.IH "12 cups" "3 liters" 
.IG "5 cups" "canned beans" "1.3 kg"
(drained)
.IG "6 cups" "stewed tomatoes" "1.5 kg"
.IG "2 lbs" "beef," "1 kg"
cut into bite-sized pieces and browned. Don't use ground beef.
.IG "2" "garlic cloves,"
chopped
.IG "3" "medium jalapeno peppers,"
cut up
.IG "2"  "green bell peppers,"
diced
.IG "1 or 2" "medium onions,"
diced
.IG "1 bottle" "flavorful beer"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "cumin" "30 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "paprika" "10 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "cayenne pepper" "5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Saut\z\(aae the meat and onions. You may do it in the same pan that you
are going to put the chili in. The meat should be brown on the
outside, but you don't have to cook it much at this time.
.SK 2
Drain the fat from the beef.
.SK 3
Put everything in a big pot over low heat (a slow cooker is handy)
and stir together.
.SK 4
Wait half an hour to an hour and check the flavor of the soupy base.
Adjust as you see fit. Perhaps add more beer, hot peppers, or
spices. Repeat as necessary.
.SK 5
Wait as long as you can, stirring occasionally. You may eat it when
the beans and beef are soft. Serve with bread, fresh-baked
biscuits or cornbread.
.NX
This is best if it has cooked at least overnight. Generally it's
ready for consumption after about three hours. If you can't turn
your stove down to a very low heat, you're bound to burn the bottom
of the chili a little, but as long as you don't scrape it off, it
will taste okay. Slow-cookers are great in this regard!
.PP
At the three
hour mark, the chili is somewhat soupy. If you want it to thicken
up, turn up the heat a bit and let it boil off the excess water.
While doing this, stir every few minutes or you may burn the bottom!
.PP
I change the proportions of ingredients (double the beef,
drop the beans, add LOTS more cumin) all the time; this recipe is
just a general guideline.
The amount of garlic given in the recipe is very conservative.
Garbanzo beans (chick peas) are nice, but they take a lot longer
to cook. Making it with
lamb or Italian sausage instead of beef is also interesting. Cherry
peppers instead of jalapeno peppers are very nice also.
.PP
Do not use wimpy American beer!  I have found
that Moosehead adds a good flavor, and I bet that Anchor Steam will
too. 
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Andrew Scott Beals
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore Ca
bandy@lll-crg.arpa, {ihnp4,pyramid,seismo,topaz,ll-xn}!lll-crg!bandy
