.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: liam@qmc-cs (William Roberts)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Aunty Betty's bombe (chocolate dessert)
Message-ID: <4813@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 15 Aug 86 05:52:56 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: CS Dept, Queen Mary College, University of London, UK.
Lines: 61
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHOC-PUDDING-1 D "12 Jun 86" 1986
.RZ "AUNTY BETTY'S BOMBE" "A high-cholesterol chocolate dessert"
This recipe comes from a friend's aunt. It always seems to taste wonderful
no matter how sloppily I measure things.
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "2 cups" "double cream" "500 ml"
.IG "1/3 cup" "sugar" "60 g"
.IG "4 Tbsp" "water" "60 ml"
.IG "6 oz" "plain chocolate" "180 g"
.IG "3" "egg yolks"
.PH
.SK 1
Whisk \(12 of the cream until stiff and spread it around the edges
of a large bowl. Freeze for \(12 to 1 hour.
.SK 2
Dissolve the sugar in the water, bring to the boil and simmer
for 3 minutes until syrupy.
Meanwhile, break chocolate into blender or warm bowl.
.SK 3
Pour the hot sugar syrup onto the chocolate and blend or whisk
until the chocolate has all melted. Add the egg yolks and mix
the whole lot thoroughly.
.SK 4
Whisk the remaining cream into soft peaks and fold gently into
the chocolate mixture. Pour into the centre of the frozen cream
and freeze for several hours until solid. Cover when fully
frozen.
.NX
Although the recipe ``serves 4\-6,'' two people will happily eat the whole
thing.
.PP
The outside is frozen solid, so you may find a
fork useful for breaking your portion into pieces without
showering fellow diners with fragments. It could be served in
small portions, but don't count on having any left over.
.PP
Double cream has more than 45% butterfat. It is difficult to find cream in
North America that is richer than whipping cream, which is typically 32%
butterfat. If you can find heavy cream it is likely to be 36%. Use the
richest cream you can find.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooling.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
William Roberts
Department of Computer Science & Statistics
Queen Mary College
University of London, UK
liam@qmc-cs.UUCP
