.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: asente@figaro.stanford.edu (Paul Asente)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Chocolate cream slices
Message-ID: <11939@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 23 Oct 87 05:15:54 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: CIS, Stanford University, California, USA
Lines: 139
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHOC-SLICES D "2 Jun 87" 1987
.RZ "RIGO JANCSI" "Chocolate cream slices"
Serving these will guarantee the success of any endeavor.  The name
is pronounced, approximately, "rrigo yanshi" (trilled r).  This recipe
comes from "The Cooking of Vienna's Empire" and is, of course, Hungarian.
A friend of mine describes the Hungarians as "the people who taught the
Viennese how to bake."
.IH "Makes 35"
.SH		CAKE
.IG "2 Tbsp" "butter" "30 g"
.IG "" "flour or cocoa"
.IG "3 oz" "unsweetened chocolate" "90 g"
.IG "\(34 cup" "unsalted butter, softened" "175 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "sugar" "100 g"
.IG "4" "eggs,"
separated
.IG "pinch" "salt"
.IG "\(12 cup" "sifted all-purpose flour" "50 g"
.SH		FILLING
.IG "1\(12 cups" "heavy cream" "350 ml"
.IG "10 oz" "semisweet chocolate," "300 g"
chopped or broken into small chunks
.IG "4 Tbsp" "dark rum" "60 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "vanilla extract" "5 ml"
.SH		GLAZE
.IG "1 cup" "fine granulated sugar" "220 g"
.IG "1/3 cup" "water" "80 ml"
.IG "7 oz" "semisweet chocolate," "200 g"
broken or chopped into small chunks
.PH "(CAKE)"
.SK 1
Preheat the oven to
.TE 350 175 .
With a pastry brush or paper towel, coat
.AB "an 11\(mu17 inch" "28\(mu44 cm""
jelly-roll pan with the butter.  This
will seem like a lot; be very generous.  Sprinkle the flour or cocoa over
the butter and shake the pan to coat the butter fully.  Tap the edge of
the pan on a table to knock out the excess flour.
.SK 2
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler or a bowl over a pan of simmering
water.  Set aside to cool to lukewarm.
.SK 3
Beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until the whites cling to the
beater.  Add
.AB "\(14 cup" "50 g"
of the sugar and beat until the whites form stiff, unwavering peaks.
.SK 4
Cream the butter and the other
.AB "\(14 cup" "50 g"
of the sugar until the mixture is
light and fluffy.  Add the melted chocolate and beat in the egg yolks one
at a time.
.SK 5
With a rubber spatula, stir about 1/3 of the beaten eggwhites into the chocolate
mixture, then pour the chocolate mixture over the rest of the whites.
Sprinkle the flour lightly on top.  Gently fold the mixture together until
no white streaks remain.
.SK 6
Pour the batter into the prepared pan, spreading it evenly with a rubber
spatula.  Bake in the middle of the oven for 15 to 18 minutes, or until
the cake shrinks slightly away from the sides of the pan and a knife
inserted in the middle comes out clean.  It will still be very flat.
Loosen the cake from the pan with a sharp knife around the sides and turn
it out onto a rack to cool.  (Put the rack over the pan and flip the whole
thing over to keep the cake from breaking.)
.PH "(FILLING)"
.SK 1
In a small heavy saucepan, combine the cream and chocolate and stir over
medium heat until the chocolate dissolves.  Then reduce the heat to very
low and simmer, stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens to the
consistency of a pudding.  Pour it into a bowl and refrigerate for at
least 1 hour.
.SK 2
When the mixture is very cold, pour in the rum and vanilla and beat with
a whisk or beater until the filling is smooth and creamy and forms soft
peaks when the beater is lifted.  Do not overbeat or you will get butter.
(If this should happen, don't despair; chocolate buttercream makes a
perfectly fine filling.)
.SK 3
Cut the cake in half to make two layers, each
.AB "8\(12 inches" "22 cm"
wide.  Spead
the filling over one layer and set the other layer on top.  Smooth out the
edges with a spatula.  If one of the cake layers should break, use it on
the bottom.  Refrigerate on a rack for about 1 hour.
.PH "(GLAZE)"
.SK 1
In a small heavy saucepan, heat the sugar, water, and chocolate over
medium heat, stirring constantly, until the sugar and chocolate are
dissolved.  Make sure the sugar is fully dissolved or you will get a
grainy glaze.  Cover the pan and let the glaze cool for about 20 minutes.
.SK 2
Set a jelly-roll pan on a table with
one short edge propped up. Put the rack with the cake on something else so
that it is suspended level over the pan but offset
.AB "2 inches" "5 cm" ,
so that you can reach down into the lower pan with a spoon.
.SK 3
Hold the pan with the glaze about
.AB "2 inches" "5 cm"
over the cake and pour the
glaze on the cake.  Using a large spoon, scoop up the glaze that collects
in the jelly-roll pan and put it back on the cake.  Keep doing this until
the glaze begins to stop flowing smoothly.  You should end up with a
thick, even layer of glaze on the cake.
.SK 4
Refrigerate the cake until the glaze is firm, 10 to 20 minutes.
.SK 5
Serve by cutting into 35 small equal pieces, 5 in each row across and 7 in
each row down.  For cutting, use a sharp knife that has been dipped in
warm water and wiped off between slices.  Keep refrigerated, but 
for maximum flavor, allow to come to room temperature before serving.
.NX
Fine granulated sugar is not the same thing as confectioner's sugar.
Regular granulated sugar will work ok for the glaze, just make sure it
is fully dissolved.  You can avoid lots of chopping by using chocolate
.AB "chips; one cup of chips equals about 6 oz." "chips."
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
Quite difficult. For experienced dessert cooks only.
.I Time:
several hours.
.I Precision:
measure carefully.
.WR
Paul Asente
Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, USA
asente@cascade.stanford.edu
decwrl!cascade.stanford.edu!asente
