.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: marcum@sun.com (Alan M. Marcum)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chopped liver
Message-ID: <5289@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 12 Sep 86 03:28:14 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California
Lines: 59
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHOPPED-LIVER A "23 May 86" 1986
.RZ "CHOPPED LIVER" "Chopped liver just like Mom used to make"
This is
.B NOT
liver pate; it's chopped liver.  And lots of folks who claim to hate liver
love this stuff.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "1 lb" "chicken livers" "500 g"
.IG "1" "onion"
(large)
.IG "2" "garlic cloves"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "schmaltz" "50 ml"
(chicken fat; see note below)
.IG "3" "eggs,"
hard boiled
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the schmaltz in a large frying pan. Saut\z\(aae the onions and garlic in
the schmaltz until the onions are tender.
.SK 2
Add the chicken livers, and saut\z\(aae until done.  (Livers are done when they
are no longer red or pink on the inside.)
.SK 3
Chop the cooked livers and onions, along with the hard boiled eggs.  I
always chop by hand, using a chopper and a wooden bowl. Regardless of how
you chop them, they should be farily coarsly chopped.
.SK 4
Season with a little salt, and a little more melted schmaltz if things are
dry.
.NX
.I Schmaltz
is rendered (melted) chicken fat.  If you want to make your own (which I
recommend), get some chicken fat (from the butcher, or from a chicken you
fix; one chicken's fat is plenty).  Put the fat in a frying pan on low
heat.  Stir the pieces of fat frequently; if there's lots of fat, you can
drain the pan into a container to keep things from splattering too much.
The fat will eventually melt down to a tough, dry blob (the
.I griveners,
which are pure poison, but I love 'em!), at which point you're done
rendering.  The liquid fat is the schmaltz.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Alan M. Marcum
Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California
sun!nescorna!marcum
