.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: jeff@rtech (Jeff Lichtman)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chuck-wagon beans
Message-ID: <3310@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 30 May 86 03:36:44 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Relational Technology, Inc., Alameda CA
Lines: 68
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CHUCK-WAGON M "13 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "CHUCK-WAGON BEAN POT" "A Hearty Bean Stew"
I got this recipe from
.I
A Primer on Bean Cookery
by the
.I
California Dry Bean Advisory Board
and other organizations.
This savory stew, featuring ham and beans,
borrows its robust seasonings from the chuck wagon cooks
of the old western cattle ranges.
The secret is long, slow cooking,
and your electric slow-cooker is ideal for the job.
Just follow the directions that come with your particular model.
If you don't have one,
slow-cook the mixture on top of the stove in a heavy pot with a lid.
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "1 lb" "any variety of dry bean" "500 g"
.IG "1" "ham hock or shank"
.IG "1" "large onion"
chopped
.IG "6 cups" "water" "1.5 l"
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "7\-10 oz" "green chili salsa" "200-300 ml"
(or tomato sauce, or canned or stewed tomatoes)
.PH
.SK 1
Rinse the beans and remove any foreign matter.
.SK 2
Mix all ingredients in the cooking vessel.
.SK 3
.IP "If Using A Slow-Cooker:"
Cover, set temperature at low, and forget for at least 10 hours.
If you have only half a day, cook the mixture 5 or more hours on high.
.IP "If Using A Stove:"
Heat all ingredients to boiling with pot uncovered.
Turn down heat, cover, and simmer gently,
adding enough boiling water to keep beans well covered.
Most bean varieties will be done in 2 to 3 hours.
.SK 4
When beans are done, take out ham bone, cut off the meat,
and put it back into the pot.
Serve hot with corn bread or muffins.
.NX
Green chili salsa is a Mexican sauce made from green chili peppers,
onions, vinegar, and other ingredients.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
Easy
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, many hours cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Jeff Lichtman at rtech (Relational Technology, Inc.)
"Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved innocent..."

{amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
{ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
