.ig
Date: Wed, 28 Jan 87 08:37:54 PST
From: daleske@cbdkc1.uucp (John Daleske)
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio, USA
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP
Subject: RECIPE: Coconut joy cookies

	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE COCONUT-JOYS C "16 Dec 86" 1987
.RZ "COCONUT JOYS" "Super-sweet, super-rich holiday cookies"
This is an easy recipe that can knock your socks off
for flavor and sweetness.
In other words, it will make your teeth fall out.
.IH "3 dozen"
.IG "\(14 lb" "butter or margarine" "120 g"
.IG "2 cups" "powdered sugar" "250 g"
.IG "3 cups" "coconut" "250 g"
(one standard package)
.IG "2 oz" "unsweetened chocolate" "60 g"
melted (2 squares)
.PH
.SK 1
Melt butter in a sauce pan.  Remove from heat.
.SK 2
Add powdered sugar and coconut.  Mix well.
.SK 3
Shape rounded teaspoons of mixture into balls.
.SK 4
Make an indent in center of each and place on cookie sheet.
.SK 5
Fill centers with melted chocolate.
.SK 6
Chill until firm.  Store in refrigerator.
.NX
We use sweetened coconut and also use semi-sweet chocolate.  This is why
they make your teeth fall out.
.PP
I tried an approach of melting the stick of margarine using the microwave on
full for 48 seconds. While it was melting, I measured and mixed up the dry
ingredients. I then poured half the liquid over the premixed coconut-sugar
mixture; mixed some and poured in the remainder. This worked well for me,
but my wife insists that the listed method is easier.
.PP
Your clean thumb is the best way to make the indentations.
.PP
Be sure to keep them in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 hour chilling.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
John Daleske
AT&T Bell Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio, USA
{cbosgd,cbatt}!cbdkc1!daleske
