.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: eirikur@hafro.uucp (Eirikur T. Einarsson)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Salted cod pudding
Message-ID: <7175@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 26 Dec 86 04:45:25 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Marine Research Institute, Reykjavic, Iceland
Lines: 54
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE COD-PUDDING M "11 Dec 86" 1986
.RZ "SALTED-COD PUDDING" "A rich pudding with salt cod, eggs, and milk"
This was cooked on a TV program a few days ago and is very nice.
.IH "Serves 4 people"
.IG "1 lb" "salted cod" "500 g"
.IG "\(14 cup" "rice" "60 g"
.IG "1\(14 cups" "milk" "3 dl"
.IG "3" "large eggs"
.IG "" "butter"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 400 200 .
.SK 2
Boil the salted cod until fully cooked.  Take it out of the water and leave
to cool.
.SK 3
Skin the fish, debone it and make a stew out of it in a bowl, not adding
anything.
.SK 4
Boil the rice and mix it with the fish in the bowl to make a good mixture.
.SK 5
Beat the eggs and mix it with the milk.
.SK 6
Put the fish/rice mixture in a heat-resistant dish in which you have spread
the butter.  Pour the milk/egg mixture over it and put it in the oven for
40 minutes.
.NX
Icelandic saltfish is mostly exported to Spain, Portugal, and Italy, where it
is used in Christmas main dishes. Here in Iceland we just boil it, and
usually eat it with boiled potatoes and boiled turnips, cut in pieces.  As
the fish is a bit dry we use butter with it, and sometimes brown bread.
.PP
If you cannot get salt cod, you can make your own by salting a cod fillet and
leaving it in the salt, refrigerated, for 3 or 4 days, then wash thoroughly.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 40 minutes baking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Eirikur T. Einarsson
Marine Research Institute, Reykjavik, Iceland
{mcvax,enea}!hafro!eirikur	eirikur@hafro.UUCP
