.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@decwrl.UUCP (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Cole slaw
Message-ID: <3008@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 16 May 86 03:40:53 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
Lines: 77
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE COLESLAW-1 SL "13 May 86" 1986
.RZ "COLE SLAW I" "Coleslaw in many variations"
My family loves to eat coleslaw. Unfortunately, we can never agree on the
recipe. If I am making a slaw that my mother or sister will eat, I
try to make a certain recipe with mayonnaise and lemon juice; if I make it
for my lunch or for a picnic, I make an entirely different recipe loaded
with onions and herbs. Craig Claiborne likes to put caraway seeds in
coleslaw. Betty Crocker suggests pineapple and marshmallows.
.PP
The \fIJoy of
Cooking\fR wants you to dress the slaw immediately before serving, while
Betty Crocker and Spice Islands want you to refrigerate for several hours.
The only rule seems to be to use fresh cabbage.
.PP
Here's the generic recipe, with several variations.
.IH "Serves 8"
.IG "1" "cabbage"
.IG "1 cup" "mayonnaise" "220 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "onion," "50 g"
diced very fine
.IG "1 Tbsp" "lemon juice" "15 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "black pepper" "2.5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Cut the core out of the cabbage and cut it into pieces. My mother likes to
cut it into big pieces; I like to cut it into little pieces. I think she
wants to make certain that nobody will accuse her of having used a food
processor.
.SK 2
Mix the pepper and lemon juice and onion in with the cabbage.
.SK 3
Add the mayonnaise, mix well, and refrigerate.
.NX
Vary the amount of mayonnaise according to how much you are worried about
calories. Vary the amount of onion if you do or don't like raw onion.
.PP
When I make coleslaw for my mother or sister, I leave out the onion and the
black pepper, and put in 
.AB "1 Tbsp" "15 g"
of sugar.
.PP
When I make slaw for a picnic or barbecue or someplace where
subtlety will not be rampant, I add 
.AB "\(12 tsp" "5 ml"
of dry mustard, 
.AB "2 tsp" "10 ml"
of paprika, and
.AB "\(12 tsp" "2.5 ml"
of celery or caraway seed.
If I'm trying to astonish somebody, I will add nuts, cheese, 
tarragon, whipping cream, chives,
whole grapes, frozen peas, Tabasco sauce, coriander seed, diced apples, or
other herbs or textural-contrast ingredients. I have not yet had the nerve
to try the Betty Crocker suggestion of omitting the onion and then adding 
.AB "\(12 lb" "200 g"
of chopped pineapple and 
.AB "\(12 cup" "30 g"
of miniature marshmallows.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun}!decwrl!reid
