.ig
From: lat@druil (Larry Tepper)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Incredible crab or shrimp dip
Date: 30 Nov 85 10:36:37 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Laboratory
Approved: reid@glacier.UUCP

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CRAB-BUTTER A "22 Dec 83" 1986
.RZ "IRISH'S CRAB BUTTER" "Incredible crab or shrimp dip"
My first encounter with this dip came at a New Year's party a
few years ago.  I was standing by the munchies table trying not
to embarrass myself too much, when a woman came up to me and
pointed out this dip.  She explained to me that at a previous party
she had lost control eating it and got a spoon!
.PP
It's incredibly rich, and requires a lot of will power not to
eat too much.
.IH "Serves 6 gluttons"
.IG "\(12 cup" "butter" ""110 g"
.IG "1 cup" "cream cheese" "240 g"
.IG "1/4 cup" "mayonnaise" "60 ml"
.IG "6 oz" "crab meat" "150 g"
.IG "1" "onion"
(medium to large, chopped fine)
.IG "some" "cocktail sauce"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "lemon juice" "30 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "crushed garlic" "2.5 ml"
(or a pinch of instant garlic)
.IG "1 Tbsp" "Worcestershire sauce" "15 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Allow butter and cream cheese to soften before starting.
.SK 2
Mix mayo, butter and cream cheese.  Do not use a blender, as the
mixture will get soupy.
.SK 3
Add lemon juice, garlic, worcestershire
sauce, pepper, etc. to taste.
.SK 4
Mix in crab (or whatever) and
onion.  Of the choices, I feel crab is the best.
.SK 5
Chill at least two hours, cover with cocktail sauce.  This is an
important part of the recipe.
.NX
I recommend Wakefield crab meat, Shrimp or Shrimp & Crab.
I usually use Crosse & Blackwell's cocktail sauce,
but feel free to use any kind that you trust.
You can make your own simple cocktail sauce by mixing 
3 parts catsup to 1 part horseradish and adding tabasco, garlic,
worcestershire sauce to taste.
.PP
Serve over Triscuits (they're nice and strong, to survive heavy
scooping) or veggies.  Irish is the friend from whom I got this
recipe.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 2 hours cooling.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Larry Tepper
AT&T Information Systems, Denver
lat@druil.UUCP
