.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pam McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Molded cranberry relish
Message-ID: <7015@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 19 Dec 86 02:53:02 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 84
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CRANB-RELISH-2 S "24 Nov 86" 1986
.RZ "MOLDED CRANBERRY RELISH" "Molded fresh cranberry relish with dressing"
For years my mother required us to taste her ever-changing
version of a fresh cranberry relish she insisted serving at
Thanksgiving and Christmas.  The unanimous family response to the
inevitably bitter dish was, ``Do we have to?''  Then one year
a friend came to Thanksgiving dinner and contributed what is now
known simply as ``the recipe.''  Mom never tried to improve on
this addictive relish.
.IH "Serves 8\-10"
.SH		DRESSING
.IG "2 cups" "marshmallow creme" "700 g"
.IG "1 cup" "heavy whipping cream" "250 ml"
.IG "3 oz" "cream cheese" "100 g"
.SH		RELISH
.IG "10 oz" "fresh cranberries" "300 g"
.IG "\(34 cup" "water" "200 ml"
.IG "6 oz" "raspberry Jello mix" "180 g"
(1 package)
.IG "\(14 cup" "granulated sugar" "50 g"
.IG "1 cup" "Tokay grapes" "300 g"
(quartered and seeded)
.IG "1 cup" "celery," "300 g"
chopped fine
.IG "2\(12 cups" "canned crushed pineapple," "500 g"
including syrup (one #2 can).
.PH "(DRESSING)"
.SK 1
The night before serving the relish, place the cream cheese and marshmallow
creme in a small bowl.  Mash lightly with a fork to barely break up cream
cheese.
.SK 2
Add whipping cream and cover tightly.  Refrigerate overnight.
.SK 3
15 minutes before  serving, whip mixture with an electric mixer until
it reaches the consistency of thick, but not stiff, whipped cream.
.PH "(RELISH)"
.SK 1
Rinse cranberries thoroughly.  Place in
.AB "an 8-cup" "a 2-liter"
saucepan with water,
and cover.  Bring to a boil and cook until the berries have ``popped.''
.SK 2
Remove from heat and, using an electric mixer, beat gently until all the
berries are broken.
.SK 3
Add Jello and sugar.  Plan saucepan over a bowl of ice and stir occasionally
until mixture has thickened but not jelled.
.SK 4
Add grapes, celery, and crushed pineapple (including packing syrup).
.SK 5
Pour into prepared mold and chill in refrigerator until set (about 3 hours).
.SK 6
To serve, unmold relish onto a plate and place dressing in a separate dish.
Serve a couple of dollops of dressing with each serving of relish.
.NX
The most difficult step is in unmolding the relish.  I always spray my mold
very lightly with a coating of an aerosol cooking oil (such as ``PAM'')
before filling it with the relish.  When it's time to unmold, I run a thin
spatula around the outside of the molded relish to barely loosen it, place
the serving plate on top and invert the mold and plate. I rarely have to dip
the mold in hot water to loosen the relish.
.PP
I usually use a standard ring mold and put the dressing in a footed compote
which sits in the center of the unmolded ring of relish.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, overnight chilling, 30 more minutes preparation.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
