.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mcvl (Mary-Claire van Leunen)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Cranberry-orange relish
Message-ID: <6518@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 21 Nov 86 04:42:21 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
Lines: 56
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CRANB-RELISH S "13 Nov 86" 1986
.RZ "CRANBERRY-ORANGE RELISH" "A fruit relish for holiday dinners"
In Chicago, where I did much of my growing up, there was a company
called Indian Trails that made a frozen cranberry relish, and their
relish was traditional at my family's Thanksgiving dinner.  When I
moved to Boston I missed it.  So I determined when next I went back to
find a package of Indian Trails, read the label carefully, and
duplicate the ingredients.
.PP
Alas, the company had gone bankrupt in my absence and there were no
packages anywhere in any reputable store.  But I knew about the
disreputable stores as well, so I took myself over to 47th Street and
sure enough there in the frozen foods section I found a pink-marbled,
faintly sticky package of Indian Trails cranberry relish, undoubtedly
thawed out and re-frozen at least a dozen times.
.PP
Eagerly I snatched it up, eagerly I read the mysterious ingredients:
cranberries, oranges, sugar.  (This was before the days when they would
have boasted "No preservatives! No artificial ingredients!")  I
returned to Boston.  I tried it: cranberries, oranges, sugar.  Based on
the original experience with Indian Trails, I assume my home-made
version would freeze admirably.
.PP
One year, in a restless fit, I added a little powdered cinnamon, but
that was silly, and I'm ashamed of myself now.
.IH "4 cups" "1 liter"
.IG "1 lb" "raw cranberries" "500 g"
.IG "3" "oranges,"
seeded but not peeled.
.IG "" "cane sugar"
.PH
.SK 1
Grind up coarsely in your meat grinder or food processor the
cranberries and oranges.
.SK 2
Sweeten to taste with sugar.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
3 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Mary-Claire van Leunen
Digital Equipment Corporation, Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, CA
mcvl@decsrc.ARPA  or  decwrl!mcvl

