.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: faigin@sdcrdcf (Daniel P Faigin)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Creamed spinach II
Message-ID: <7965@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 6 Feb 87 04:45:31 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: System Development Corp., Santa Monica., Calif., USA
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

Here's the recipe:
..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CRM-SPINACH-2 V "07 Nov 86" 1987
.RZ "GULLIVER'S CREAMED SPINACH" "Creamed spinach with bacon"
This is a creamed spinach recipe that we found in the
Los Angeles Times.  It produces a creamed spinach that even my wife likes.
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "10 oz" "spinach," "300 g"
chopped. Either frozen or fresh may be used.
.IG "3" "bacon slices"
.IG "1" "small onion"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "flour" "20 g"
.IG "1\(14 cups" "milk" "300 ml"
(we substitute a like quantity of 50/50 \fIKosher Parve\fP creamer and
water)
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "pepper" "2.5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Rinse and chop the spinach.
Place the chopped spinach in a heavy skillet, cover, and steam
until wilted, stirring occasionally.
There is no need to add water other than what clings to the
leaves from washing.
(If you are using frozen spinach, place over low or medium heat
to thaw and allow excess water to evaporate)
Transfer to small bowl and squeeze completely dry.
.SK 2
Grind bacon and onion very fine and place in saucepan.
Saut\z\(aae bacon and onion until bacon is cooked.
.SK 3
Stir in flour to make smooth paste. Gradually add milk. Bring to
boil and simmer 10 minutes over low heat until thickened.
.SK 4
Add salt and pepper.
Grind spinach fine and add to cream sauce.
.NX
You may find that you want to add extra milk and give the 
finished soup a final heating in the microwave. We did, and it
didn't hurt it one bit.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 15 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Daniel Faigin and Karen Davis
Santa Monica, California, USA
{akgua ihnp4 hplabs cbosgd}!sdcrdcf!faigin	sdcrdcf!faigin@LOCUS.UCLA.EDU
