.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: roche@rochester.arpa (James Roche
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Sweet cucumber chunks
Message-ID: <11647@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 11 Sep 87 03:08:50 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: U of Rochester, CS Dept, Rochester, New York, USA
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE CUKE-CHUNKS AV "20 Mar 87" 1987
.RZ "SWEET CUCUMBER CHUNKS" "A very sweet cucumber pickle"
My wife's grandmother provided us with this wonderful pickle recipe.
.IH "Serves many"
.IG "10" "cucumbers,"
not too fat
.IG "8 cups" "sugar" "800 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "pickling spice" "30 ml"
(see note)
.IG "5 tsp" "salt" "25 ml"
(noniodized salt is best)
.IG "4 cups" "vinegar" "1 liter"
.PH
.SK 1
Wash cucumbers and place in large pot. Pour boiling water over cucumbers
until they are covered. Let stand for 24 hours and then drain. Repeat this
procedure for three (3) days. The cucumbers will be rather slimy after this.
This is normal.
.SK 2
On the fourth day drain and slice into bite-size chunks. If the cucumbers are
fat you can halve or quarter the chunks so you end up with bite-size pieces.
.SK 3
Combine the remaining ingredients. Bring mixture to a boil, stirring
frequently. Pour cooked mixture over the cucumber pieces. 
.SK 4
Return to a boil, but just a boil. Do not cook. Pour cucumbers and liquid
mixture into canning jars and seal. Jars should be sealed in a boiling water
bath for 10 minutes.
.NX
These are best if they sit for a month or so after canning, to give them time
to work. If you use iodized salt, they are more likely to get cloudy during
that month.
.PP
If your grocery does not sell premixed "pickling spice" mixtures, try
various combinations of mustard seeds, celery seeds, coriander, dill, or any
other strongly-flavored spices that you like.
.PP
We increase this recipe by several times. Last year we used about 200
cucumbers.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
4 days of soaking. About 1\-2 hours of real work.
.I Precision:
Approximate measure ok.
.WR
Jim Roche
University of Rochester, Computer Science Department
roche@cs.rochester.edu		rochester!roche
