.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: stephenw@murdu.oz (Steven Withers)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Damper (Outback drover bread)
Message-ID: <3607@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 13 Jun 86 03:36:44 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia
Lines: 75
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE DAMPER B "22 Apr 86" 1986
.RZ "DAMPER" "Bread as made by drovers in the outback"
I don't know how many of you realise it, but there is a wealth
of TV programmes about cooking from around the world.  We are
lucky in that Australia's SBS network (Special Broadcasting 
Service\(em``multicultural television'') has a regular slot for
food and wine at a convenient time on Saturday evenings.  Over
the last couple of years we have seen series on French, Indian,
Chinese, English, Vegetarian, Australian, and Sri Lankan cookery, 
among others. If you're missing out, why not call your local station?
.PP
This recipe comes from a series called ``Australian Tableland''.
Traditionally,
damper should be cooked in the coals of a camp fire, but the
temperature in an oven is much more consistent!
.PP
This recipe has the advantages of being simple and\(emwith ordinary
care\(emreliable.  
.IH  "1 damper"
.IG "2\(12 cups" "self-raising flour" "625 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "butter" "5 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "sugar" "5 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "milk" "250 ml"
(or use 
.AB "\(12 cup" "125 ml"
of powdered milk and
.AB "1 cup" "250 ml"
water.)
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 350 180 .
.SK 2
Mix together the dry ingredients and the butter.  
Add the liquid and
mix well.  Knead for about 5 minutes (if you don't know about kneading, look
in a good cookery book with plenty of pictures\(emit's difficult to
describe in words).
.SK 3
Shape into a flattened ball, and place on a greased and floured baking
sheet or in a greased and floured round cake tin (I recommend the 
latter, about 
.AB "7 or 8 inch" "18 to 20 cm"
diameter, as it gives a better shape).  
Bake for 30 minutes.
Use a dutch oven if you are cooking in an open fire, and use your 
experience as to cooking time.
.NX
Serve in moderately thick slices while still fairly hot.  
I'm told that golden syrup (a treacle-like substance made as a by-product of
cane sugar refining) 
is the traditional thing to spread on it, and that goes well.  Jam
is good, too.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
measure carefully.
.WR
Stephen Withers,
The University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria 3052, Australia.
UUCP:	{seismo,mcvax,ukc,ubc-vision}!munnari!murdu.oz!stephenw
CSNET:	stephenw%murdu@munnari.oz
