.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@decwrl.UUCP (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Dandelion salad
Message-ID: <11699@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 25 Sep 87 03:11:47 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
Lines: 61
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE DANDELIONS SL "13 May 86" 1986
.RZ "DANDELION SALAD" "Dinner salad made with dandelions and cheese"
The U.S. Department of Agriculture once had a big presence in the life of the
average American. Their publications on home canning, gardening, and cooking
found their way into almost every household in the country.
.PP
The USDA Food and Nutrition Service still exists, and they still produce
books and pamphlets on every topic having to do with growing, eating, and
analyzing food. In this era of frozen food, microwave ovens, and iceberg
lettuce, there's much less demand for their books than there once was.
.PP
In time for the Bicentennial, the USDA produced a book called
\fIFavorite American Recipes\fR, which is a non-copyrighted collection of
traditional American rural and farm recipes. All are simple and nutritious;
most are also a little dull. Here's one that I like.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "\(12 lb" "tender, fresh dandelion greens" "200 g" 
.IG "\(12 cup" "thinly sliced red onions" "65 g"
.IG "2" "tomatoes,"
cut in fourths.
.IG "\(14 lb" "sharp cheddar cheese," "110 g"
grated
.IG "\(12 tsp" "black pepper" "2.5 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "salad oil" "60 ml"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "vinegar" "50 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "dill" "5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Wash the dandelion greens carefully. Drain well and cut into pieces.
.SK 2
Add the onions, tomatoes, and cheese. Toss to mix.
.SK 3
Make a salad dressing by mixing the pepper, salad oil, vinegar, and dill.
Dress the salad, toss, and serve.
.NX
Make sure that you take the dandelion greens from a lawn that has not been
treated with pesticides or anti-growth hormones recently. (Many lawn
fertilizers also contain weed-control hormones).
.PP
You can substitute a commercial salad dressing for the oil, vinegar, pepper,
and dill.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{decvax,ihnp4,ucbvax,sun}!decwrl!reid

