.ig
From: thomas@utah-gr (Spencer W. Thomas)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Mo's ancestral eggnog
Date: 10 Jan 86 03:45:49 GMT
Organization: University of Utah, Computer Science Dept.
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE EGGNOG3 L "30 Oct 82" 1986
.RZ "MO'S ANCESTRAL EGGNOG" "Wonderful eggnog"
[I got this recipe from net.cooks back in 1982.  It was posted by Mike
O'Dell (known around the network as "mo").  I have made it for the last two
Christmases, and find it quite good.  The recipe is basically as he posted
it. I have added a few comments in brackets.  Apparently he served it at a
party at LBL-CSAM that year.]
.PP
This wonderful formula was handed down to me from my grandmother,
who got it from her mother and grandmother.  I heartily recommend
it as a superior lubricant for the festive season.
.IH "Makes about 16 cups" "Makes about 4 liters"
.IG "12" "eggs, separated"
.IG "1 lb" "confectioner's sugar" "450 g"
.IG "2 cups" "liquor" "500 ml"
.IG "8 cups" "heavy whipping cream" "2 l"
.IG "1\-2 tsp" "nutmeg" "5\-10 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "sugar" "100 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Separate the 12 eggs.  Set the whites aside in the 'fridge, tightly covered
for safety, as they won't be needed until much later.
.SK 2
Beat the yolks until they noticeably lighten in color.
From here on out, an industrial-strength mixer (Kitchen-Aid K5,
for instance) is a big help.  [Being at my in-laws, I was forced to use a
little GE hand mixer.  It worked fine.]
.SK 3
Continue beating the yolks while adding the confectioner's sugar.
.SK 4
Beat for about 4 minutes or until the mixture turns much lighter
yellow and takes on a satin-like texture.
.SK 5
While still beating, \fIslowly\fR add
.AB "2 cups" "500 ml"
liquor.  [If you decide you need more, this is NOT where you put it in.]
.SK 6
After the liquor is thoroughly beaten in, cover the mixture with 
plastic wrap or aluminum foil and let it stand for 1 hour
\fIat room temperature\fR.  This is to "cook" the eggs and takes much
longer if you refrigerate.  [I lay plastic wrap right down on top of the
mixture to avoid any possible "skin" that might form.]
.SK 7
After standing, add the heavy whipping cream, \fIunwhipped!\fR
You could try whipping it first, but again, you are on your own.
.SK 8
Add the nutmeg.
\fBOPTION:\fR
At this point, the original recipe calls for adding an additional
.AB "2\-4 cups" "500ml\-1 l"
of liquor, but I omitted this as it passed a taste-test as-is.
If you want your 'Nog a LOT stronger, have at it, but please taste
before you pour.
.SK 9
Mix thoroughly, again.
.SK 10
Refrigerate the mixture for 3 hours to let it ripen.  I use two 
large juice containers.  It splits nicely between them and
will fit in our 'fridge.  [Overnight is good, if you're making it for, say,
Christmas day, but see the safety note below if you intend to let it sit
overnight.]
.SK 11
At the end of the 3 hours, remember where you put the egg whites.
Beat them until stiff but not dry, adding about
.AB "\(12 cup" "100 g"
sugar to slightly sweeten the whites.
N.B.: 12 egg whites whip into quite a mass, so be prepared.  [You can also
whip them 6 at a time.  This is probably a very good idea if
you're doing it in a Kitchenaid, since 12 might overflow the bowl.]
.SK 12
Assembly instructions.  Pour the whites into the serving bowl
you will be using.  Then gently and slowly pour the other mixture
into the bowl, mixing with a whisk to fold it all together.  
The whites should be smoothly and evenly distributed through
the 'Nog to make it fluffy.  They will lose some of their bulk
so don't be afraid to mix thoroughly.  Sprinkle the top with some
more nutmeg, and serve.  A shaker of nutmeg by the bowl is a
nice touch for those wanting a shake on their own mugful.
[The first time I made this recipe, I had to keep restirring the mixture.
The only difference I can think of is that the second time I didn't add
sugar to the egg whites.]
.NX
[This makes a large amount of eggnog. Last year I made a half recipe,
which sufficed for the 10 or so people we had then.  This year I made the
whole thing, and 16 people left some over (some of them don't drink,
though).]
.PP
Powered sugar will do nicely, and even granulated would probably
work if you beat long enough.  [I'm not sure about the difference between
confectioner's sugar and powdered sugar.  Maybe they were different in the
old days?\(emSWT] [Confectioner's sugar and powdered sugar are regional
names for the same product\(emBKR]
.PP
For the liquor, use bourbon,
rum, vodka, Canadian blended, or whatever you like.  Being a bourbon
fan, I used that in the batch for the CSAM party.  The others should work
but I haven't tried them.  Depending on taste, you may want more than this.
[I used rum the times I made it.]
.PP
[Note from the editor: eggwhites are \fIextremely\fR susceptible to bacterial
infection. If you intend to make this eggnog ahead of time, to let it stand
longer than the 3 hours suggested, do not store the separated eggwhites and
then blend them in at the last moment. If you want perfection in overnight
eggnog, then discard the whites from the separated eggs, and crack and
separate 12 new eggs in the morning and use their whites. If you want
economy in overnight eggnog, then fold the eggwhites into the alcohol
mixture before storing it overnight.\(emBKR]
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
\(12 hour preparation, 3 hours waiting.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Enjoy!!!
-Mike O'Dell
Arlington, Virginia
Reposted and annotated by Spencer W. Thomas:
	({ihnp4,decvax}!utah-cs!thomas, thomas@utah-cs.ARPA)
	Salt Lake City, Utah
