.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: oday@hplabs (Vicki O'Day)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: New Mexico enchiladas
Message-ID: <3729@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 20 Jun 86 03:37:58 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA
Lines: 85
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE ENCHILADAS-1 M "18 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "NEW MEXICO ENCHILADAS" "New-Mexico-style enchiladas with eggs"
This is the way my grandmother and aunt made enchiladas;
I haven't lived in New Mexico myself, but that's where
this recipe came from.
.IH "Serves 2"
.IG "1 lb" "ground beef" "250 g"
.IG "1\-2" "cloves garlic,"
minced
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
(or use more or less to taste)
.IG "" "pepper"
.IG "1\-3 tsp" "chili powder" "5\-15 ml"
(to taste)
.IG "1 Tbsp" "flour" "15 ml"
.IG "4 oz" "tomato sauce" "125 ml"
.IG "8 oz" "water" "250 ml"
.IG "2" "corn tortillas"
.IG "2" "eggs"
.IG "" "vegetable oil"
.IG "1 cup" "shredded lettuce" "200 g"
.IG "1" "large tomato,"
chopped
.IG "1" "medium onion,"
chopped
.IG "5 oz" "cheddar cheese," "120 g"
grated
.PH
.SK 1
Saut\z\(aae the beef over medium heat until it has lost its raw red color,
chopping it with the edge of a spoon into small pieces as it cooks.
Add the garlic and spices and cook another 3\-4 minutes. Add salt, pepper,
and chili powder to taste. Remember that the flavor of chili mellows as it
cooks, although it won't get less hot.
.SK 2
Add the flour to the meat mixture and stir well.
Add the tomato sauce and water.  Simmer gently (uncovered)
for about 45 minutes, until it has thickened and the flavors
are blended.
.SK 3
Heat about 
.AB "\(14 inch" "0.5 cm"
of oil in a small skillet over medium-high
heat, until it sizzles when a bit of tortilla is dropped in.
Soften the tortillas briefly in the oil, one at a time, about
5 seconds on a side.  (Turn with tongs, being careful not to
tear them.)  Drain on paper towels.
.SK 4
Prepare another small skillet with a small amount of oil in the
bottom, enough for frying an egg.
.SK 5
Assembling the enchiladas requires you to keep track of several
things at once.  Start an egg frying for each enchilada.  Make
sure that the yolk is cooked soft, not hard!
Put one tortilla on a dinner plate.  Cover it with a medium-thick
layer of meat sauce.  Sprinkle chopped onion and grated cheese on
top.  Sprinkle lettuce and chopped tomato around the edge.  Top
with another tortilla.  Cover with more meat sauce, sprinkle more
onion and cheese.  Now top with the fried egg and 
serve immediately.
.NX
You can also make single-decker enchiladas, for people with small appetitites. 
Omit the second layer of tortilla, meat, onion and cheese, but
don't forget the egg.  If you make single-deckers, you will need twice as
many tortillas and twice as many eggs, but the same amount of the other
ingredients.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 45 minutes simmering, 5 minutes assembly.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Vicki O'Day
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, CA
hplabs!oday
