.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: karen@silvia.berkeley.edu (Karen Kerschen)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Enchiladas sabrosas
Message-ID: <6392@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 14 Nov 86 02:12:38 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: EECS Dept., Univ. of Calif., Berkeley, Calif., USA
Lines: 113
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE ENCHILADAS-2 M "1 Aug 86" 1986
.RZ "ENCHILADAS SABROSAS" "Enchiladas with meat, black olives, and cheese"
For many years, I've been involved in Latin American ``solidarity work''
here in the San Francisco area, and as a result, I have learned some of its
culinary pleasures.  This recipe originated from the back of a can of
enchilada sauce in Mexico, but was refined by a special Chilean refugee
friend who won a scholarship to the California Culinary Academy (in San
Francisco) and now cooks ever-so-lusciously.
.IH "Serves 6\-8"
.IG "2 lbs" "ground meat" "800 g"
(mixed ground beef and ground pork)
.IG "1" "medium onion"
.IG "\(12" "green pepper"
.IG "5" "garlic cloves"
.IG "1 bunch" "cilantro"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "red pepper" "2.5 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "salt" "2.5 ml"
.IG "\(12\-1 tsp" "cumin" "3\-5 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "wine or sherry" "100 ml"
.IG "\(34 cup" "black olives" "90 g"
.IG "1\(12 cups" "enchilada sauce" "350 ml"
(1 can)
.IG "\(12 cup" "tomato sauce" "100 ml"
(1 small can)
.IG "12" "corn tortillas"
.IG "\(12 lb" "monterey jack cheese" "200 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "sour cream" "125 ml"
(optional)
.IG "" "oil"
.PH
.SK 1
Chop onion and garlic; place them in a frying pan with the ground
meats.  Saut\z\(aae them without adding fat.
.SK 2
When meat is brown, add the chopped green pepper and most of the
cilantro leaves and cook for another minute or
two (until green pepper is cooked bright green).
.SK 3
Drain well, then add
.AB "several tablespoons" "about 50 ml"
of the enchilada sauce and cook for a few minutes longer.  
Set aside.
.SK 4
Make the sauce:
into a saucepan, pour the remaining enchilada sauce (from the can).
Add the can of tomato sauce.  Add the wine or sherry, cumin,
salt, red pepper, and cook for 10\-30 minutes (depending on how compulsive
you are). The flavor should be smooth (not gritty) and spicy. 
.SK 5
Collect together everything that you will need for assembling the
enchiladas. Grate the cheese onto wax paper. Have
the olives handy (you'll be cutting them in half). Lightly oil the baking
dish.
.SK 6
The frying pan from which you drained the meat mixture still has
some of its grease left in it.  Take 4 tortillas from their package,
separate them from each other, then one-by-one, slide them over the
frying pan surface on each side, to moisten them slightly
with the grease. That done, stack them in the
frying pan and heat them until they are soft and pliable.  
.SK 7
The final  assembly requires a bit of manual dexterity and speed:
Take the tortillas, and place them (bumpy side out) in the oven 
dish, curved into a ``U'' shape,
each right next to its neighbor.  (At this point, start heating your 
next 4 tortillas in the frying pan.  I usually wind up preparing 10
tortillas in all.) 
.SK 8
Place a small handful of cheese into the U of
each tortilla, followed by an appropriate amount of meat mixture,
and finally several olive halves.  Then curl one end of the
tortilla around to tuck into the opposite end, and carefully rotate
it to conceal the seam.  Each tortilla should be filled firmly (not
too loosely) but not overflowing the ends.
.SK 9
Once all the filling is used up and the enchiladas are now filled
tortillas, pour the sauce over the top, helping it run into all
the crevices.  Sprinkle lightly with remaining cilantro leaves.
.SK 10
Cover with aluminum foil and bake for 20\-30 minutes, just until the
tortillas are soft and the sauce is slightly bubbly.  
Let sit for 5 minutes, then serve, topped with a dollop of
sour cream.  
.NX
If you fail to drain the meat well enough, the enchiladas will be greasy.
If overbaked, it tastes all right, but the
tortillas lose their texture. In general, however, the recipe is 
quite forgiving
in its proportions.  Feel free to adjust the seasoning to your own
tolerance for hot spice.  I like to assemble this recipe at least 3
hours before baking to give the flavors a chance to blend.  
Left refrigerated for a day, the seasoning is even less aggressive.
Served with a salad (and some Mexican beer), it's a complete meal.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
1 hour preparation, 30 minutes baking.
.I Precision:
Approximate measurement OK, but time the baking carefully.
.WR
Karen Kerschen
EECS Department, University of California, Berkeley, Calif., USA
karen@silvia.Berkeley.EDU
