.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: michael@smokey.ua.oz (Michael Oudshoorn)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Curry fondue
Message-ID: <11802@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Oct 87 05:18:52 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Computer Science Dept., University of Adelaide, South Australia
Lines: 88
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE FONDUE-1 M "22 Apr 87" 1987
.RZ "FONDUE INDIENNE" "Cheese fondue with curry flavor"
This is a very tasty meal and a lot of fun as well.  You will need to have a
crockery fondue pot and a burner, as all the cooking happens on your dinner
table with your guests doing all their own cooking!  My wife and I enjoy a
fondue with dinner guests or simply by ourselves, and this is one of our
favourites. This recipe is adopted from one published by the Australian
Dairy Corporation many years ago.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "1" "garlic clove,"
crushed
.IG "1" "medium onion,"
grated
.IG "1\(14 cups" "dry white wine" "300 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "curry powder" "10 ml"
(or more or less, to taste)
.IG "2\(12 cups" "matured cheddar cheese," "500 g"
grated
.IG "2 Tbsp" "flour" "20 g"
.IG "\(14 cup" "spicy fruit relish" "60 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "salt" "2.5ml"
.IG "" "freshly ground pepper,"
to taste
.PH
.SK 1
Rub the bottom and sides of the fondue pot with the clove of garlic before
crushing it and using it in the next step.
.SK 2
Bring the garlic, onion, wine and curry powder to simmering point in the fondue
pot. If you want to speed things along a little then you can do this on the
stove and then transfer the mixture to the fondue pot.
.SK 3
Combine the grated cheese and flour by tossing in a plastic bag.
.SK 4
Gradually stir in the cheese, a handful at a time.  Allow it to melt completely
between each addition.  When all the cheese has been added the mixture should be
bubbling and smooth.
.SK 5
Stir in the relish.
.SK 6
Season with salt and freshly ground pepper.
.SK 7
Keep the mixture warm over a burner, seat your guests down, fill their wine
glasses and enjoy your meal.
.NX
I often add more cheese than the recipe calls for.
You can use any of the following as dippers with the fondue:
.SK 1
whole cultivated mushroom caps, sauteed quickly in butter then tossed in chopped
parsley.
.SK 2
whole, peeled and deveined prawns.
.SK 3
fresh pineapple chunks.
.SK 4
canned artichoke hearts, well drained and halved.
.SK 5
unpeeled apple wedges, thick banana slices or peeled pear quarters tossed in
lemon juice (to prevent them from going brown during your meal.)
.SK 6
thick cucumber slices or chunks.
.SK 7
small whole radishes.
.SK 8
califlower
.SK 9
a small French loaf per person.
.SK 10
anything else that tickles your fancy.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
40 minutes preparation, cooking takes as long as it takes you to eat it.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK
.WR
Michael Oudshoorn
Computer Science Dept., University of Adelaide, South Australia
mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz
