.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: asente@cascade (Paul Asente)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Fruit soup
Message-ID: <4682@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 8 Aug 86 05:14:42 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Stanford University, Palo Alto, California
Lines: 96
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE FRUIT-SOUP SPV "16 Jun 86" 1986
.RZ "FRUIT SOUP" "Fresh fruit soup"
This is a simple, delicious soup, perfect for a hot summer day.  It
is based upon a recipe in \fIThe Moosewood Cookbook\fR by Mollie Katzen.
This describes what emerged last time I made it; vary any or all of
the ingredients freely.  I've included some suggestions at the end.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "12 oz" "apple juice concentrate" "350 ml"
(one can)
.IG "2" "peaches or nectarines"
.IG "1 wedge" "canteloupe"
.IG "2" "apricots"
.IG "12" "strawberries"
.IG "1" "small lemon"
.IG "1" "small lime"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "dried mint flakes" "2.5 ml"
.IG "" "cinnamon"
.IG "" "nutmeg"
.IG "2 cups" "unflavored yogurt" "500 ml"
.IG "" "honey"
.IG "" "sherry or other sweet wine"
.IG "12 oz" "grape juice concentrate" "350 ml"
(one can)
.IG "4" "violets or other small non-toxic flowers"
.PH
.SK 1
Wash and peel the peaches, canteloupe, and apricots.  Wash and hull
the strawberries and set aside the 4 nicest ones.  Peaches and
apricots peel more easily if you dip them in boiling water for a few
seconds before peeling.  Try not to lose any juice from the fruit.
.SK 2
Put half of the fruit into the bowl of a food processor and pur\z\(aaee.
You could also use a food mill for this.
.SK 3
Put the pur\z\(aaeed fruit into a bowl and add the apple juice concentrate,
an equal quantity of  water, the juice of the lemon and of the lime, the
mint flakes, a sprinkle each of cinnamon and nutmeg, and half of the yogurt.
Whisk together well.  Add several glugs of sherry and honey to taste.  (It
shouldn't be very sweet\(ema couple spoonfuls should do it.)
.SK 4
Put the rest of the fruit in the food processor and pulse until well
chopped but with recognizable chunks of fruit still visible.  Put
this into a different bowl and mix some of the first mixture into it
so the fruit doesn't turn brown.  Put both bowls in the refrigerator
for at least half an hour.
.SK 5
When you're ready to serve, divide the chunky fruit into 4 soup
bowls.  Fill each bowl almost to the rim with the soup.  Pour the
grape juice concentrate into a creamer or small pitcher and carefully
pour two concentric circles of grape juice into each bowl.  Take a
chopstick or similar sized utensil and draw it through each bowl
several times alternating from the center to the edge and from the
edge to the center, lifting the chopstick after each stroke.  This
should turn the rings of grape juice into sort of a zigzag pattern.
Stir up the remaining yogurt well and put a little mound of yogurt
into each bowl.  (The yogurt will probably sink.  Put more in until
you get a mound!)  Take the 4 reserved strawberries, slice them
thinly, and surround each mound of yogurt with strawberry slices.  Top
each mound of yogurt with a flower and get ready for the oohs and ahs.
.NX
You can substitute any fruit that you want, but use strong tasting
fruits like pineapple in moderation or they will take over the soup.
Bananas are nice; cherries are wonderful but impossible to peel.
Plums and other fruits with very mild flavors tend to get lost in the
shuffle.  The juice concentrates can be replaced with regular juices;
vary them if you like, also.  There's an apple-pear-grape juice
combination that's delicious as the base and cranberry juice is nice
as the contrasting color.  Or, use a darker juice for the base and
something lighter in color like orange juice to make the rings.
Cherries or mint leaves make attractive garnishes.
.PP
Of course you don't have to go through all the special presentation
work, but it really doesn't take that much time and it makes the
result into something special.  Doing the fruit in two steps is
strictly optional; if you're not going to make the ring pattern you
may as well just process it all at once and stop before it's
completely pur\z\(aaeed.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 30 minutes chilling, 10 minutes presentation.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Paul Asente
Stanford University
asente@su-cascade.arpa	decwrl!glacier!cascade!asente
