.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mogul@navajo (Jeff Mogul)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Szekely goulash
Message-ID: <3312@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 30 May 86 03:39:34 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Science
Lines: 76
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE GOULASH-1 M "14 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "SZEKELY GOULASH" "Southern Hungarian goulash"
This goulash is a specialty of Szekely, the southern part of Hungary.
My grandmother cooked it without a recipe; this recipe is from my mother,
with my modifications.
(Szekely is not pronounced the way it's spelled; "say-ki-ee" is a little
closer, but still wrong.)
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "2 lb" "sauerkraut," "1 kg"
rinsed and drained (use a colander)
.IG "1 Tbsp" "caraway seeds" "15 ml"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "butter" "30 g"
(or oil or bacon drippings)
.IG "1 lb" "pork shoulder," "500 g"
cut into large bite-sized pieces
.IG "1 lb" "Hungarian sausage," "500 g"
or Polish sausage,
sliced into large bite-size rounds
.IG "1" "large onion,"
chopped
.IG "2" "cloves of garlic,"
finely chopped
.IG "1" "green pepper,"
chopped
.IG "1 Tbsp" "Hungarian sweet paprika" "15 ml"
(or use
.I fresh
paprika from the supermarket)
.IG "2 cups" "sour cream" "500 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Use a covered pot large enough to hold all the ingredients.
Put the sauerkraut in just enough
water to cover it, add caraway seeds, and simmer
with the cover on for two hours (or longer, if you want).
.SK 2
In a large, heavy skillet melt the butter and brown the pork.  Put the
pork and the sausage into the pot with the sauerkraut.
.SK 3
Saut\z\(aae the onion in the skillet
until transparent; add the garlic and saut\z\(aae for a few more minutes.
Add this to the pot, along with the green pepper and paprika.  (I've
had good luck adding some cayenne at this point.)
.SK 4
Simmer (with the cover on loosely) for a couple of hours, mixing it up
occasionally.
.SK 5
Remove from heat and let cool for 30 minutes; then stir in the sour cream
and serve.
.NX
This goes well with noodles, dumplings, potatoes, or spaetzle
(called
.I nokedli
in Hungarian).
The longer it cooks, the better it tastes; it's even better reheated.
Cook it the day before but don't add the sour cream until you've
reheated it.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes chopping, many hours cooking.
.I Precision:
Approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Jeffrey Mogul, Computer Science Department, Stanford University
    {ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!glacier!navajo!mogul, mogul@Navajo.Stanford.EDU

