.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kyrimis@princeton (Kriton Kyrimis)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Halvas politikos
Message-ID: <7967@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 6 Feb 87 04:46:36 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
Lines: 63
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE HALVAS D "12 Nov 86" 1987
.RZ "HALVAS POLITIKOS" "A Greek dessert with semolina"
This is a traditional greek dessert that is extremely
.AB "tasty, and as easy to make as 1-2-3-4 (see below)." "tasty."
.IH "fills a cake-mold"
.IG "1 cup" "olive oil" "250 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "semolina" "350 g"
.IG "3 cups" "sugar" "600 g"
.IG "4 cups" "water" "1 liter"
.IG "" "powdered cinnamon"
.PH
.SK 1
Dissolve the sugar in the water and bring it to a boil.
.SK 2
At the same time, brown the semolina in the oil on high heat,
stirring continuously.
.SK 3
When the semolina has taken a golden brown colour, add the syrup
into it (taking care not to burn your hands), turn down the heat and keep
stirring until you get a kind of thick porridge.
.SK 4
Pour into any kind of mold you can think of (a cake-mold is perfect for the
job), and let it cool.
.SK 5
Unmold into a platter and sprinkle with cinnamon. Slice it using a wet knife,
serve, and watch your weight go sky high!
.NX
You should be very careful during step 3, as the browned semolina is
extremely hot, and pouring water on it causes an eruption of scaldingly hot
steam.
.PP
You should not put this dessert in the refrigerator. It can keep
for a few days outside the refrigerator, assuming you can gather enough
will power not to eat it all at once. Some oil will start to drain off after a
day or so, but this
is to be expected. Just make sure you don't leave the dessert on your favourite
tablecloth!
.PP
The recipe doubles, halves etc. nicely as long as you keep the
proportion of the ingredients.
.PP
I have seen variations on this dessert using any kind of fat imaginable,
ranging from cooking fat to olive oil or butter, though I've only tried
it with olive oil.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
15\-20 minutes.
.I Precision:
Measure the ingredients, except for the sugar which you can adjust to taste.
.WR
Kriton Kyrimis
Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey, USA
princeton!kyrimis
