.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kent@decwrl.dec.com (Chris Kent)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Hollandaise sauce
Message-ID: <10904@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 17 Jul 87 06:07:14 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, CA, USA
Lines: 72
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE HOLLANDAISE-1 S "17 May 87" 1987
.RZ "LIGHT HOLLANDAISE" "A quick and easy Hollandaise sauce"
Few small things seem to impress dinner guests more than a good
Hollandaise sauce. Perhaps this is because the guests think it is 
difficult to execute. This recipe disproves that notion; it makes it
simple to produce a consistently good Hollandaise sauce.
Use it over asparagus, to dip artichokes, with steak and rice, or for
anything you can imagine. The original recipe comes from
.I
Julia Child & Company.
.IH "1\(12 cups" "4 dl"
.IG "3 Tb" "fresh lemon juice" "50 ml"
.IG "3 Tb" "water" "50 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "salt" "2.5 ml"
.IG "3" "eggs"
.IG "6\-8 oz" "unsalted butter" "200 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the butter in a small saucepan. It should be warm, but not bubbling
hot.
.SK 2
Combine the lemon juice and water in a small sauce pan. Bring to a simmer,
adding the salt.
.SK 3
Meanwhile, place one egg and the yolks of the other two in a smallish
saucepan. Vigorously beat the egg and yolks with a wire whip for a minute
or so, until they are pale and thick.
.SK 4
Set the yolk mixture over moderately low heat and whisk in the hot lemon
juice by driblets. Continue whisking, not too fast, but reaching all over
the bottom and corners of the pan, until you have a foamy warm mass.
Remove from heat just as you see a wisp of steam rising. (Do not overheat
or you will coagulate the egg yolks.)
.SK 5
Immediately start beating in the warm butter by driblets, to make a thick,
creamy, light yellow sauce. 
.SK 6
Taste carefully for seasoning, adding salt, pepper, and more lemon juice
to taste.
.NX
This sauce is really so easy to make, you should leave it to the last
minute. It doesn't keep terribly well. Any egg yolk and butter sauce can
be kept only warm, not hot, or it will curdle.
Also remember that sauces with egg yolks are prime breeding grounds for
sick-making bacteria.
.PP
Copper or stainless steel saucepans are best, as they transmit and hold
heat better than anything else. I often make this solely in CorningWare
pots, and find that sometimes the sauce will not set after removing from
heat and adding the butter. In this case, return the mixture to very low
heat, whisking vigorously until the sauce achieves the desired thickness.
Too much heat will either curdle the egg yolks or cause the butter to
separate from the mixture.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
5 minutes.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Chris Kent
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
kent@decwrl.dec.com	decwrl!kent
