.ig
From: bch@unc.UUCP (Byron Howes)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Byron's Famous Killer Cheese Dip
Date: 27 Dec 85 09:58:24 GMT
Organization: University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE HOT-CHEESE-DIP A "31 Dec 83" 1986
.RZ "BYRON'S FAMOUS KILLER CHEESE DIP" "A hot spicy party cheese dip"
Here it is, folks!  By popular demand, the cheese dip known to make women
faint, strong men cry, and small children run for their mommies.  
This started out as an attempt to replicate a
\fIChili con Queso\fR dip, but took off in its own direction.
.IH "makes 18 oz of dip" "makes 700 ml"
.IG "11 oz" "cheese soup" "320 g"
(one can of condensed canned cheese soup).
.IG "4 oz" "chopped green chilies" "120 g"
(I use Old El Paso canned chilies)
.IG "1" "medium yellow onion,"
chopped
.IG "1 Tbsp" "crushed red pepper" "15 ml"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "chili powder" "30 ml"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "cumin" "15 ml"
.IG "1" "garlic clove,"
crushed.
.IG "1/4 tsp" "hot sauce" "1 ml"
(Tabasco sauce or hot pepper sauce)
.IG "8 oz" "sour cream" "250 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Mix together all ingredients except the sour cream; heat to boiling at low
heat.
.SK 2
When blended, correct seasoning (usually needs more cumin and garlic.)
.SK 3
Add sour cream and heat until it bubbles slightly.
Serve with Tostitos or any natural Mexican-style corn chip.
.NX
This recipe may be doubled, quadruped or even sextupled without problem.
Go easy on the red pepper if your guests don't like hot food.  The effect,
if done correctly, should be an initial impression of cheese, cumin,
sour cream and garlic followed a second later by a sinus-cleaning heat.
As one partaker has put it ``You have to keep eating because if you don't,
you'll die.''  Guaranteed to increase beer consumption at parties.
.PP
Good Luck!
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
very easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes.
.I Precision:
Measure the spices, just so you'll know how much you have put in.
.WR
Byron Howes
University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill
decvax!duke!unc!bch
