.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mcg@omepd.intel.com (Steven McGeady)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Lamb sans mint
Message-ID: <12526@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 29 Apr 88 05:35:16 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Intel, Portland, Oregon, USA
Lines: 76
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE LEG-OF-LAMB-3 M "30 Oct 87" 1988
.RZ "LAMB SANS MINT" "Grilled butterflied leg of lamb"
I devised this recipe after being unable to find an appropriate recipe in
the library. It is always well received, and it looks impressive far out of
proportion to its difficulty. Because it is simple and difficult to screw
up, it is perfect as the centerpiece for a meal with a large group or with
complex side dishes. Serve with a hearty rice pilaf and a vegetable.
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "1" "leg of lamb,"
butterflied and trimmed.
.IG "6 Tbsp" "rosemary" "50 g"
.IG "" "black pepper"
.IG "" "green onions"
.IG "4 cups" "burgundy wine" "1 liter"
.IG "2 cups" "olive oil" "500 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "lemon juice" "100 ml"
.IG "6" "garlic cloves,"
sliced
.IG "1 Tbsp" "oregano" "15 ml"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "thyme" "15 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "onion," "200 g"
minced
.PH
.SK 1
Carefully trimming the fat from a butterflied leg of lamb, and
and finish the cut, as needed, so that the lamb lies flat in
a butterfly shape.  A large butterflied leg of lamb should be no more than
.AB "2 or 3 inches" "6 to 8 cm"
thick.
.SK 2
Take a liberal amount of rosemary, crush it,
and rub it into the lamb.  When crushing it, don't turn it into dust,
just break it. Sprinkle some black pepper on the cut side of the meat.
.SK 3
Combine the remaining ingredients (wine, green onions, olive oil, lemon
juice, garlic, oregano, thyme, and onion) into a marinade.
Place the 
lamb in a shallow dish or bowl, cover as much as possible with the
marinade, and marinate in a refrigerator, covered, for 4 to 24 hours.
Turn at intervals to marinate evenly.
.SK 4
Grill over mesquite and charcoal on a grill with a tight-fitting lid,
such as a Weber. 
Cook on one side for 25 minutes, occasionally spooning some
leftover marinade onto the uncooked side, then turn and cook 
about 20 more minutes.
cooking.  Make a small cut in the thickest 
part of the lamb to check for doneness: when the center is still pink,
but not raw, take the lamb off and prepare to serve.  Remember that
the lamb will continue to cook after you take it off the grill.
.SK 5
Serve the lamb cut-side down (pretty side up).  Garnish with uncooked
green onions.
.NX
Your butcher can butterfly a leg of lamb for you.
Tell him you will be cooking it flat, and not rolling it back up into a
roast. Ask him to be careful.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy if you have a good butcher.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 45 minutes roasting.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Steven McGeady
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon, USA
mcg@omepd.intel.com
