.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: anita@utastro.UUCP (Anita Cochran)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Grilled butterflied leg of lamb
Message-ID: <12528@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 29 Apr 88 05:36:53 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: U. Texas, Astronomy, Austin, TX
Lines: 68
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE LEG-OF-LAMB-4 M "7 Apr 88" 1988
.RZ "MARINATED LAMB" "Grilled butterflied leg of lamb"
This is the best recipe I have ever had for lamb.  It really brings
out the flavor wonderfully. It came originally from the \fISilver Palate
Good Times Cookbook\fR.
.PP
A wonderful side dish for this is the Spanish recipe for Garlic fried
potatoes (PATATAS-POBRES).
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "1 cup" "red wine" "250 ml"
.IG "\(12\-\(34 cup" "soy sauce" "150 ml"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "rosemary leaves," "15 ml"
crushed
.IG "1 Tbsp" "fresh black pepper" "15 ml"
.IG "4" "cloves garlic,"
crushed
.IG "1" "half leg of lamb,"
butterflied
.PH
.SK 1
Mix together all of the ingredients except the lamb.  Place the lamb
in a bowl or pan that will not be corroded by the marinade
(a glass 
.AB "9\(mu13" "22\(mu33-cm"
pan works well).
.SK 2
Pour most of the marinade over the lamb.  Swish the lamb
around and get it soaked on both sides.  Cover and marinate in the
refrigerator for at least several hours, turning occassionally.
.SK 3
Start a fire in the grill and get the coals very warm
but not flaming.  Place lamb on grill 
.AB "3\-4 inches" "8\-10 cm"
from the coals.
Cook on this side for 20 minutes, basting with the extra marinade
occasionally.  Turn the meat over and cook another 20 minutes.
.SK 4
After 10 minutes on the second side, start checking for doneness.
Contrary to many people's ideas, lamb should not be well done but should
still be a little pink.  When done, slice thin and serve.
.NX
For the meat, you need a half leg of lamb which has
been butterflied.  A good butcher can do this for you but don't
be afraid of trying it yourself.  To butterfly the leg,
take a sharp knife and start at the side and work towards the bone.
Once you have found the bone, work along it so you have one side completely
slit and then cut out the bone.  Depending on which end of the leg
you have, you may need to puzzle over some of the weirdnesses of the bone
shape.  Don't discard the bone\(emit makes interesting soup.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 40 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Anita Cochran
Astronomy Dept., The Univ. of Texas, Austin, TX, 78712
anita@astro.as.utexas.edu  {noao, ut-sally, ut-emx}!utastro!anita
