.ig
From: hav@dual (Repo Wench)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: World's greatest Macaroni and Cheese
Date: 14 Mar 86 05:10:49 GMT
Organization: Dual Systems, Berkeley CA
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MAC-AND-CHEESE M "12 Jul 85" 1986
.RZ "MACARONI AND CHEESE" "Greatest macaroni and cheese in the universe"
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "\(34 lb" "bacon" "350 ml"
(optional, but I think this really makes the dish!)
.IG "\(14 cup" "butter" "60 g"
(margarine will do in a pinch)
.IG "1\(12 cup" "bread crumbs" "60 g"
(unseasoned, and don't use sourdough crumbs either)
.IG "1 lb" "uncooked elbow macaroni" "500 g"
.IG "3\-5" "scallions,"
chopped
.IG "1\(12 lb" "Swiss cheese" "750 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Cook the bacon until it is very crisp. When done, blot dry.
.SK 2
Put the butter in a small frying pan and heat at a low
temperature until it's melted.
When melted, add the bread crumbs and saut\z\(aae until the bread
crumbs are browned, stirring frequently to avoid burning the crumbs.
.SK 3
Boil the macaroni in water according to directions on the
package. Don't overcook ... it should be ``al dente''.
A little olive oil added to the pot will help prevent the macaroni from
sticking together.
.SK 4
While the macaroni is cooking, grate the cheese and chop the scallions.
.SK 5
When the macaroni is done, drain it in a colander.
The ``assembly'' is done in layers into a glass baking dish.
Put a layer of macaroni on the bottom, then cheese,
the crumble bacon and scallions on top of this.
Make the layers thin; this way, you can
get about three pasta/cheese/bacon layers.
When all of these are in the pan, top with the bread crumbs and
bake at
.TE 325 160
for 20 minutes or until the bread crumbs are a little
more browned and the cheese is melted.
.SK 6
Eat. However, it makes fantastic leftovers, so you won't want to eat it all.
.NX
Cooking the bacon in the oven or in a microwave works well for this recipe.
I find the best way to dry the bacon is to put a couple of
paper towels on top of an old brown paper bag, then the bacon,
and then a couple more paper towels on top of that, and then just
pat with the hand a few times. It's important to get the bacon dry or the
casserole will be too greasy.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20\-30 minutes preparation, 20 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Helen Anne Vigneau
{ihnp4,cbosgd,hplabs,decwrl,ucbvax,sun}!dual!hav
Dual Systems, Berkeley CA

Hey, there's a great future as a fry cook!  I could be manager in two years.
