.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: tovah@cepu.uucp (Tovah Hollander)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Matzo-brei (Passover breakfast)
Message-ID: <9193@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Apr 87 06:31:07 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 53
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MATZO-BREI MV "16 Mar 87" 1987
.RZ "MATZO BREI" "Traditional Passover breakfast"
When I was growing up, the main thing that kept us kids happy about
matzah-for-eight-days was my father making ``matzah 'n' eggs'' for breakfast
nearly every morning. I didn't even know it had a ``real'' name. As I was
beginning to stock my own kitchen, the very first Passover items I bought
were a bowl, a colander and a frying pan.
.IH "Serves 1\-2"
.IG "2" "matzot"
(plural of matzah)
.IG "2\-3" "eggs"
.IG "" "salt and pepper,"
to taste
.IG "" "oil or margarine"
.IG "\(14 cup" "cottage cheese," "6 cl"
well drained (optional)
.PH
.SK 1
Break matzot into medium-sized pieces and place in colander or strainer.
Pour boiling water over them and drain quickly (they should be slightly
limp, not soggy).
.SK 2
Mix together matzot, eggs and seasoning in a bowl.
(You can add cottage cheese at this point.)
.SK 3
Heat the margarine or oil in a frying pan, and pour in the mixture. You can
either (a) heat one side until brown, then flip over, like an omelette or
(b) heat while continually stirring, like scrambled eggs (my tradition).
Serve hot.
.NX
Any printed recipe for matzo brei that I've ever seen says ``serve with
honey or jam.'' However, in our family, this dish is considered a savoury,
not a sweet, and we're much likelier to sprinkle a bit more salt and pepper
on top.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes.
.I Precision:
is to laugh.
.WR
Tovah Hollander
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California USA
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,seismo!hao}!cepu!tovah
