.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: aviva@excelan (Aviva Garrett)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Mayonnaise
Message-ID: <7880@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 30 Jan 87 04:48:27 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Excelan, Inc., San Jose, California, USA
Lines: 64
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MAYONNAISE-1 S "6 Nov 86" 1987
.RZ "MAYONNAISE" "Mayonnaise made in a blender"
Many years ago I got tired of store-bought mayonnaise, because
for me it was too sweet and had a rather odd texture.  Learning
how to make mayonnaise turned out to be a challenge, with many
failures along the way (which usually resulted in something on
the order of mayonnaise soup).  I find this recipe consistently
works well.  And surprisingly it, too, has a rather sweet taste.
.IH "1 cup" "250 ml"
.IG "1" "egg,"
size "large" or larger
.IG "1\(12\-2 Tbsp" "lemon juice (or vinegar)" "20\-30 ml"
(this is usually the juice of half a medium lemon)
.IG "1 cup" "oil" "250 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Place the egg and lemon juice (or vinegar) in a blender.
Blend at a high speed until the mixture starts to lose some of its
yellow color and become a bit whiter.
.SK 2
Pour the oil in slowly (in a constant stream over the course of
about half a minute).  
Keep the lid on the blender as you do this 
(just lift the corner to pour in the oil), 
or else it will spatter everywhere.
.NX            
.PP
As you might guess, the type of oil you use affects the taste of
the mayonnaise.  I suggest that you start with the oil you
regularly cook with and then experiment from there.
.PP
I've found that the biggest reason for failure is putting in too
much acid (lemon juice/vinegar).  The result is something akin
to soup.  Nothing will correct this failure.  However, you can use 
this mayonnaise-soup in potato salad (or other similar salads).
.PP
You can add small amounts
.AB "(up to 1 tsp)" "(up to 5 ml)"
of spices, such as mustard (dried or prepared) and Tabasco sauce.
Add these to the egg/acid mixture before pouring in the oil, 
so they get thoroughly mixed into the mayonnaise.
This mayonnaise will normally keep for a maximum of
three weeks if kept in a cold part of the refrigerator (such as the
bottom shelf away from the door)
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
less than 5 minutes; 
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR                         
Aviva Garrett
Santa Cruz, California, USA
Excelan, Inc., San Jose, California
ucbvax!mtxinu!excelan!aviva
