.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: marcum@sun.com (Alan M. Marcum)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Mint mousse
Message-ID: <5288@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 12 Sep 86 03:27:16 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California
Lines: 50
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MOUSSE-CHOC-2 D "23 May 86" 1986
.RZ "MINT WHITE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE" "Sinful and light mint chocolate mousse"
This concoction is a variation of another white chocolate mousse, which
is a variation of a dark rum chocolate mousse.  It was invented for a
friend's birthday, which happens to be on St. Patrick's Day.  We were
sitting around the day before, planning the celebration, and I offered to
bring some white mousse.  Someone suggested it should be green, in honor
of the occasion.  I came up with the perfect way to make green chocolate
mousse....
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "4 oz" "white chocolate" "120 g"
.IG "3 Tbsp" "green creme de menthe" "50 ml"
.IG "2" "egg whites"
(at room temperature)
.IG "1 cup" "heavy cream" "250 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the white chocolate in a double boiler.  When melted, stir in the
creme de menthe.  Let it cool a bit, and stir in
.AB "2\(12 Tbsp" "40 ml"
of cream.  Let cool.
.SK 2
Beat the egg whites until stiff, but not dry.  Fold the
chocolate-creme-cream mixture into the beaten egg whites.
.SM "The more carefully you fold, the lighter will be the mousse."
.SK 3
Whip the remaining cream, until soft peaks form.  Fold the egg
whites\-chocolate mixture into the whipped cream.
.SM "Again, the more air you preserve, the lighter the mousse."
.SK 4
Spoon carefully into small bowls or cups, and chill for about two hours.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate, depending on folding and whisking skills.
.I Time:
30 minutes.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Alan M. Marcum
Sun Microsystems, Mountain View, California
sun!nescorna!marcum
