.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kent@decwrl (Christopher A. Kent)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Easy chocolate mousse
Message-ID: <7341@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 2 Jan 87 04:48:38 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
Lines: 54
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MOUSSE-CHOC-3 D "30 Sep 86" 1987
.RZ "HIPPO POT DE MOUSSE" "Extremely quick and easy chocolate mousse"
This is an adaptation of a very easy chocolate mousse recipe from
Sandra Boynton's hilarious book, 
.IR "Chocolate, the Consuming Passion" .
It requires none of the laborious preparation that most French mousse
recipes call for, and really optimizes the effort needed to consume the
chocolate, which is, after all, what this is all about.
.IH "Serves one to six people"
.IG "4 oz" "semisweet chocolate" "125 g"
.IG "2 oz" "bittersweet chocolate" "60 g"
.IG "2 cups" "heavy cream," "500 ml"
well chilled. Whipping cream will do nicely.
.IG "1 tsp" "almond extract" "5 ml"
(optional)
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the chocolate together in the top of a double boiler.
Be careful to do this slowly, so as not to burn the chocolate, and to
keep all moisture away from the pot.
Let the chocolate cool for five minutes.
.SK 2
While the chocolate cools, whip the cream and almond extract together
until very stiff.
.SK 3
Gently fold the cooled chocolate into the whipped cream. 
There will be many flecks of chocolate in the mixture.
.SK 4
If you're not going to eat it all yourself, spoon into six large wine
glasses. Chill one hour.
.NX
If you're careful, you can also melt the chocolate in a microwave oven,
in its wrapper. If you try this, be especially mindful of the semisweet
chocolate, as the sugar therein caramelizes very quickly, leading to an
awful mess (and ruined chocolate).
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 1 hour chilling.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Chris Kent
Digital Equipment Corp., Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
kent@decwrl.dec.com	decwrl!kent
