.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: nemo@rochester (Richard Newman-Wolfe)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Mustard greens
Message-ID: <12336@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 12 Feb 88 06:17:40 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: University of Rochester, Computer Science Dept
Lines: 56
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE MUSTARD-GREENS V "18 Oct 84" 1988
.RZ "MUSTARD GREENS" "Cooked mustard greens with bacon and onion"
Lucky you! Down home mustard greens!
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "1 lb" "mustard greens" "450 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "bacon" "220 g"
.IG "1" "yellow onion"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "pepper," "2.5 ml"
or to taste
.IG "2 Tbsp" "vinegar," "30 ml"
or to taste
.PH
.SK 1
Wash the greens carefully about
5 times (like spinach, they can hide an incredible amount of grit) by 
soaking, then swishing in the water, then shaking out above the water
and checking for dirt in the water. Repeat until there has been no grit
twice.
.SK 2
Now, a hand-sized clump at a time, slice into thin strips
.AB "(\(12 inches" "(1 cm"
wide is fine).
.SK 3
Cook the bacon in a deep dish to render the fat.
.SK 4
Remove the bacon and saut\z\(aae the onion slices until they are
just beginning to turn brown. Add the sliced greens and stir over medium
heat until they wilt, then add the reserved bacon and cover the dish.
.SK 4
When cooked, add pepper and vinegar, then serve.
.NX
How long you allow mustard greens to cook is a matter of taste.
Traditionally, they are cooked to death (in excess of
an hour). I prefer them cooked for about 10\-15 minutes after wilting. It
is not usually necessary to add water, but do not allow them to dry out.
There should be some ``pot liquor'' in the bottom when you're done, which
people normally fight over.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Richard Newman-Wolfe (nemo@rochester)
University of Rochester Computer Science Department
(pass the cornbread and the field peas, please)
