.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mgh@mtunh (Marcus G. Hand)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Omelet Arnold Bennett
Message-ID: <4034@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 4 Jul 86 03:35:44 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: AT&T Information Systems, Holmdel NJ
Lines: 85
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE OMELET-1 M "5 Apr 86" 1986
.RZ "OMELET ARNOLD BENNETT" "Omelet with cream and smoked fish filling"
In the vein (sic) of artery cloggers, this recipe must
be one of the highest-cholesterol dishes I've come across in years.
It may sound unconventional, but delicious it most certainly is.
I came upon it in the Bistro under the
Everyman Theatre in Liverpool, circa 1978.
The following is my reconstruction of the dish I had there.
.IH "Serves 2"
.IG "6" "large eggs"
(the fresher the better)
.IG "6 oz" "smoked haddock" "180 g"
(or other smoked large-flaked white fish)
.IG "2 oz" "finely grated sharp cheddar" "60 g"
(the light yellow New York/Vermont style is best)
.IG "2/3 cup" "heavy cream" "175 ml"
.IG "a little" "butter"
.IG "pinch" "dill"
.IG "pinch" "salt and pepper"
.PH
.SK 1
Prepare the fish by poaching it lightly (5 minutess) and then
breaking it up into nice large flakes.
.SK 2
Whip the cream and fold in the grated cheese. Add the fish and set aside.
.SK 3
The remaining steps are a basic omelet recipe and can be
used with any filling.
Crack the eggs, beat them up with the dill, salt and pepper.
.SK 4
Meanwhile heat a frying pan.
Add a knob of butter and let it melt.
When it has stopped frothing and is just beginning to go brown...
.SK 5
Slop in half the egg mixture and immediately return to the heat
and stir the eggs two or three times;
then with a fork draw the edges into the middle
and allow the un-solidified egg to run onto the exposed pan.
.SK 6
While it is still a mixture of fluffy and runny,
add half of the haddock and cream mixture.
Continue to cook until underside begins to turn golden brown.
.SK 7
Fold over and serve on a hot plate with bread and butter immediately.
(You can't leave it in the oven for ten minutes while you do another!)
While it is being eaten, cook the second omelet.
.NX
My guess, although I haven't yet tried, is that
the smoked haddock could be substituted with any large-flaked
smoked white fish, like cod perhaps.
The important point is that it should not have an overpowering flavour.
I bought mine in a Scottish specialty shop in Kearny, NJ.
Also,
you should grate the cheese as finely as possible so that it blends
smoothly with the cream.
.PP
Now a diatribe on omelet pans.
I have always been most successful with a small thin tinned-copper
omelet pan (which loses its heat and reheats very quickly),
and a heavy cast iron skillet,
which maintains an even hot temperature (and doesn't need to
be reheated after adding the egg mixture).
Aluminum and stainless steel pans tend to cool down too much and then take
too long to reheat which results in a dry leathery omelet.
(But, there again, you may like 'em like that.)
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
15 minutes.
.I Precision:
measuring spoils the fun.
.WR
Marcus G Hand
AT&T Information Systems, Holmdel, New Jersey
ihnp4!mtunh!mgh
"The way to a man's heart-attack is through his stomach..."
