.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pamela McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: White osso bucco
Message-ID: <5710@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 3 Oct 86 03:34:15 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
Lines: 90
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE OSSO-BUCCO M "21 Jul 86" 1986
.RZ "WHITE OSSO BUCCO" "Braised veal shanks in white wine"
This recipe is adapted from Marcella Hazan's \fIMore Classic Italian
Cooking.\fR
Simple to make, this dish beats any ``traditional'' osso bucco with tomatoes
and vegetables that I've had in the U.S. or Italy.
.IH "serves 4"
.IG "8 slices" "veal shank,"
each
.AB "1\(12\-2 inches" "4\-5 cm"
thick.
.IG "\(14 cup" "olive oil" "60 ml"
.IG "1/3 cup" "unsalted butter" "80 g"
.IG "2\-3 cups" "dry white wine" "5\-7 dl"
.IG "1" "lemon"
.IG "8 Tbsp" "fresh parsley," "20 g"
chopped fine
.IG "" "flour, salt, and pepper"
.PH        
.SK 1
Dredge the veal shank pieces well in flour.
.SK 2     
In a large skillet with high sides,
heat the olive oil and butter over moderately high heat until the butter stops
foaming. If you do not have a skillet large enough
to accommodate all of the meat in a single layer, use two smaller pans.
.SK 3
Add the veal shanks to the skillet and arrange in a single layer.  Cook over
moderately high heat until browned on one side.  
.SK 4
Add a generous amount of salt and pepper.
.SK 5
Turn meat and brown the other side, and add salt and pepper.
.SK 6
Add enough white wine to nearly, but not quite, cover the meat.  Reduce heat
to a barely bubbling simmer.  Cover with a well-fitting lid.  Cook at a simmer
for 2\(12 hours.
.SK 7
Peel a thin layer of rind from the lemon. (I find that a vegetable peeler gives
me a nice thin layer of rind.)  Cut rind into fine strips.
.SK 8
Remove veal shanks to a warm plate.  The meat will be falling-off-the-bone
tender, so a wide spatula is advised for this step to keep each shank intact.
Keep meat warm through the next several steps.
.SK 9
Add lemon peel and chopped parsley to the sauce and place over high heat.  Boil
vigorously for several minutes to reduce sauce slightly.  Stir to loosen
any brown bits from the pan and then frequently to prevent burning.
.SK 10
Remove from heat and return shanks to skillet.  Spoon sauce over shanks
and replace skillet lid.  Let sit for 3\-5 minutes to reheat shanks.
.SK 11
Serve with sauce over shanks.
.NX
Veal shanks are a relatively inexpensive cut of meat.  If possible, ask your
butcher to use hind shanks which have more meat than do the forelegs.
The key to
this dish is the quality of the ingredients.  I use the best olive oil
(Italian, virgin first-press, cold-press) and table quality dry white wine
(fume or sauvignon blanc) I can find at a reasonable price.
.PP
For dredging, rather than using a plate  
of flour, I put about 2/3 cup flour in a plastic bag, put in the shanks one at 
a time, and shake to thoroughly cover all sides of the meat with flour.
.PP
The flavor of
the dish is light so I usually serve with a home-made pasta dish with a
cream-based sauce  and a steamed green vegetable.  Be sure to have plenty
of crusty bread on hand to soak up the sauce.  For those who like the marrow,
don't forget to spoon it out of the shanks.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
