.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: morris@diablo (Kathy Morris)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Pavlova I (Australian meringue dessert)
Message-ID: <3605@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 13 Jun 86 03:34:16 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Science
Lines: 70
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PAVLOVA-1 D "10 Apr 86" 1986
.RZ "PAVLOVA I" "Pavlova (Australian meringue dessert)"
This is a quintessentially Australian dish. The legend behind it is that it
was created by a chef in Adelaide after he had seen Anna Pavlova dance,
saying that he wanted to create a dessert that was as light and airy as her
dancing. 
.PP
Australians pride themselves on their ability to cook a good Pavlova. When
important visitors come to an Australian household, they are likely to be
served a Pavlova with plenty of fresh fruit. There are many variations on
the recipe. This one comes from my friend Janet Wiles.
.IH "Serves 6\-8"
.IG "4" "egg whites"
(at room temperature)
.IG "1 cup" "castor sugar" "200 g"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "vinegar" "15 ml"
.IG "" "cornflour"
.PH
.SK 1
With an electric mixer, beat the egg whites until soft peaks form, 
then gradually add the sugar (about 
.AB "1 tsp" "5 ml"
every 30 seconds).
This will take around 15 minutes. Beat until firm.
.SK 2
Add the vinegar.  When combined, turn out onto
a flat baking sheet that has been greased and dusted with cornflour.
Shape it so that there will be a hollow in the centre to hold the fruit.
.SK 3
Cook in a pre-heated, warm oven
.TE "(350\-375" "(175\-190" ")"
for 10 minutes, then at
.TE "200\-250" "100\-125"
for 40\-50 mins.
.SK 4
When cooked, turn the oven off, and allow to cool
slowly in the oven for at least an hour, preferably overnight. Gradual
cooling is important.
.SK 5
Serve cold, topped with whipped cream and fresh fruit such as
strawberries, bananas, and kiwi fruit.
.NX
Castor sugar is known in North America as ``granulated sugar.''
Cornflour is likewise ``cornstarch.''
.PP
The higher temperature initially is to form a crust on the outside
of the meringue base\(emit should be crisp on the outside, though
not browned, and soft inside.  It's important that the beaters and
the bowl are really dry and clean.  Uneven temperatures will
cause the base to collapse (keep the oven door closed and let
it cool \fIslowly\fR). Experienced Pavlova cooks claim that electric ovens
work best because they heat more uniformly.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking, 1 or more hours cooling.
.I Precision:
Measure the ingredients.
.WR
Janet Wiles (Janetw@basser.oz), Sydney University, Australia
Transcribed by Kathy Morris (morris@diablo.ARPA), Stanford University
