.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: alex@pta (Alex Patison)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Pavlova II (Australian meringue dessert)
Message-ID: <3606@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 13 Jun 86 03:35:34 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Pyramid Technology, Australia
Lines: 61
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PAVLOVA-2 D "10 Apr 86" 1986
.RZ "PAVLOVA II" "Pavlova (Australian meringue dessert)"
.IH "Serves 6\-8"
.IG "4" "egg whites"
(from large eggs)
.IG "1 cup" "castor sugar" "250 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "cornflour" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "vinegar" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "vanilla flavour" "5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to 
.TE 250 120 .
.SK 2
With an electric mixer beat the egg whites until soft peaks form, 
then gradually add the sugar. Beat until firm.
.SK 3
Add the cornflour, vinegar and vanilla.  When combined, turn out onto
a flat tray that has been greased and dusted with cornflour.  Try a 
circular shape with slightly more mixture at the edges so that 
it may be served by placing goodies in its centre depression.
.SK 4
Cook in a pre-heated, cool
.TE "(250" "(120" ")"
oven for one hour.  When cooked,
turn the oven off, leave the oven door slightly ajar, and allow to cool
slowly in the oven.  This slow cooling works to prevent the loss of too
much height.
.SK 5
Serve cold, with whipped cream and fresh fruit pieces, strawberries and
kiwi fruit for example.
.NX
Cornflour is known in North America as cornstarch. Castor sugar is known
there as granulated sugar.
.PP
Make sure that you start off with a clean bowl and beat the egg whites well.
A bowl with smooth sides (glass, metal) will help the eggs to whip up.  A
plastic bowl with scratches prevents the eggs from attaining a very light
texture.
Also ensure that the sugar is fully dissolved before going on to the next
step. I have never had troubles from over-whipping.
The final texture should be meringue on the inside with a thin crust
on the outside.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking, 1 hour cooling.
.I Precision:
Measure the ingredients.
.WR
Alex Patison	  	  UUCP: {pyrcorp,sun}!pta!alex
Pyramid  Technology  Australia	   ACSNET: alex@pta.oz
