.ig
From: asente@cascade (Paul Asente)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Peanut butter fudge
Date: 31 Jan 86 05:20:46 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Lab
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PBUTTER-FUDGE D "8 Jan 86" 1986
.RZ "ED'S PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE" "An extremely rich candy"

I got this recipe from a friend, Ed Firestone, who is arguably the
best cook in Palo Alto.  The results resemble Reese's Peanut Butter
Cups that have attained Nirvana.  Don't scrimp on the peanut butter;
get the best you can find or make it yourself.  If there's anything
besides peanuts and salt in it, find another brand.

.IH "3 lbs of fudge" "1.5 kg of fudge"
.IG "1 lb" "smooth natural peanut butter" "500 g"
.IG "1 lb" "powdered sugar" "500 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "butter" "250 g"
(2 sticks\(emsave the wrappers)
.IG "1 tsp" "vanilla extract" "5 ml"
.IG "12 ounces" "semi-sweet chocolate" "400 g"
(otherwise known as 1 bag of chocolate chips)
.PH
.SK 1
Melt the chocolate in a bowl over hot water or the top of a double
boiler.  Make sure you don't get even a drop of water in the
chocolate.  Stir frequently with a spatula while doing the following
steps and remove it from the hot water just as soon as it's melted.
.SK 2
Melt the butter.
.SK 3
Mix together the powdered sugar, the melted butter, and the vanilla.
Don't bother sifting the powdered sugar.  Just stir everything
together with a wooden spoon until it's smooth and creamy.
.SK 4
Stir in the peanut butter.  This will break most flimsy wooden spoons
if you're not careful.  Mushing everything together with your hands
works well and is lots of fun.
.SK 5
Press the fudge into a buttered 
.AB "8- or 9-inch" "20- to 25-cm"
square pan.  You don't need much
butter\(emjust wipe the butter papers over the inside of the pan.  You
can also line the pan with foil and butter \fIthat\fR; this works
especially well if you're making several batches in a row to give to
people as holiday presents.  Press the fudge in firmly; you don't
want any air bubbles in it.  You will get your hands messy here.
.SK 6
Pour the chocolate over the fudge and spread it in an even layer.
The easiest way to do this is to shake the pan gently until the
chocolate is even.
.SK 7
Let the chocolate cool to room temperature.  \fBDo not put it in the
refrigerator.\fR
.SK 8
Using a sharp knife cut the fudge into 
.AB "1-inch" "2-cm"
squares.  If you defied my instructions and put it in the refrigerator, the
chocolate layer will shatter when you try to cut it.
.SK 9
Unless you are going to serve it immediately, store it in the
refrigerator.  Let it come to room temperature before serving.
.NX
Again, don't scrimp on the peanut butter!  \fISkippy\fR simply will not do.
.PP
Unless you use the foil method, you will inevitably destroy at least
one piece getting it out of the pan.  The best method is to line the
pan with foil, let the fudge cool, lift it out, peel off the foil,
put it back in the pan, and cut it.  This keeps it from sticking to
the pan.  If you try to cut it out of the pan, it tends to fall apart.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 15 minutes cooling.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.  
.WR
Paul Asente
Stanford University, Computer Systems Lab, Palo Alto CA
decwrl!glacier!cascade!asente	asente@SU-Cascade.ARPA

"You got peanut butter on my chocolate!"
