.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: gh@utai (Graeme Hirst)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Mice (Australian pear dessert)
Message-ID: <3608@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 13 Jun 86 03:38:17 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: University of Toronto  Computer Science Department
Lines: 49
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PEAR-MICE D "19 May 86" 1986
.RZ "MICE" "A quick pear dessert"
In general, a typical
Australian dish is a typical British dish, which is to say a typical European
or American dish with most of the subtleties of flavour (and difficulty in
making) removed.  The following dessert is a genuine Old Family Favorite in
Australia.
.IH "Makes 1 serving"
.IG "2" "pear halves"
Preferably canned (for authenticity), but cooked fresh pear would do.
.IG "2" "blanched almonds"
.IG "" "angelica"
(Cut two pieces of crystalized (candied) angelica, each
.AB "1/8 inch" "3 mm"
by
.AB "2 inches" "50 mm" ")"
.PH
.SK 1
Carefully halve the almonds along the natural split in the nut.  (This is
easiest after they are still wet from blanching.)
.SK 2
Place the pear halves, round side up, in the serving dish.
.SK 3
At the narrow end of each half, add two almond halves to make mouse ears.  At
the other end, insert the angelica to make a tail.
.NX
Candied angelica is almost impossible to find in North America.  Anything else
with the appropriate properties of sweetness and shape may be substituted,
e.g. a piece of chocolate or candy cut to size, such as an Ovation mint
divided longitudinally.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
2 minutes.
.I Precision:
don't measure, count.
.WR
////   An Australian, far from home.
\\\\   Graeme Hirst    University of Toronto  Computer Science Department
////   utcsri!utai!gh  /  gh@toronto
