.ig
Date: Wed, 28 Jan 87 08:38:11 PST
From: naf@cbdkc1.uucp (Nancy Foltz)
Organization: AT&T Bell Labs, Columbus, Ohio, USA
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP
Subject: RECIPE: Pecan tarts (miniature pecan pies)

	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PECAN-TARTS-1 C "22 Dec 86" 1987
.RZ "PECAN TARTS" "Miniature pecan pies"
These are miniature pies, cooked in bite-size individual crusts in tiny
muffin tins. They are quite delicious.
.IH "4 dozen"
.SH		PASTRY
.IG "6 oz" "cream cheese" "180 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "butter or margarine" "250 g"
.IG "2 cups" "all-purpose flour" "200 g"
.SH		FILLING
.IG "3 cups" "brown sugar" "600 g"
.IG "2 tsp" "vanilla" "10 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "chopped pecans" "110 g"
.IG "4" "eggs,"
beaten
.IG "4 Tbsp" "melted butter or margarine" "60 g"
.PH 
.SK 1
Allow the butter and cream cheese to soften. Mix cream cheese and butter
with a mixer until fluffy.  Then (using your hands) mix in the flour.
Separate mixture into four equal parts and flatten each into a rectangular
shape.  Allow the pastry to chill for several hours.
.SK 2
Preheat oven to
.TE 350 175 .
.SK 3
Prepare filling by mixing all ingredients gently.
Use a spoon, not a mixer.
Refrigerate until muffin tins are ready to fill.
.SK 4
Take one unit of the chilled pastry and cut into 12 equal pieces.
Roll each piece into a ball and then form the ball into the muffin
tin in the shape of a crust.  Fill each tart about \(34 full.
.SK 5
Bake at
.TE 350 175
for 20 to 30 minutes.
.NX   
You will need to purchase tiny muffin tins, sometimes called ``nugget
pans,'' to make these tarts.  They are inexpensive and you can use these for
various other things. It is best to purchase enough to make four dozen at
once.  The entire four dozen will fit into the oven on one rack!  It is best
to spray these tins with cooking oil before putting the crust in.
.PP
There is a wooden utensil called a ``tart-tamper'' that is a real time-saver
for this recipe.  It might be difficult to find.  It is used to smash the
ball to fit the tin so you don't spend a lot of time using your fingers.
You dip the tip of the tamper in flour each time to prevent sticking to the
pastry.  It also makes the pastry look much more uniform and professional.
.PP
Bake these until \fIslightly\fR brown.  To remove tarts, just turn the tin
upside down onto paper towels and then turn the tart right side up on a
baking rack to cool.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy if you have a tart tamper; moderate otherwise.
.I Time:
15 minutes pastry preparation; several hours chilling;
1 hour filling, baking, and cooling.
.I Precision:
Be precise for the pastry, filling may be approximate.
.WR
Nancy Foltz
AT&T Bell Labs, Columbus, Ohio, USA
cbdkc1!naf
