.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mcvl@src.dec.com (Mary-Claire van Leunen)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Roasted red peppers
Message-ID: <12446@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 15 Apr 88 05:33:46 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, Calif., USA
Lines: 71
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PEPPER-ROAST V "6 Jul 87" 1988
.RZ "ROASTED RED PEPPERS" "A low-calorie but flavorful red pepper salad"
Safeway got in their first carload of really cheap red peppers yesterday,
and I made roasted pepper salad.
.PP
Serve this at room temperature as a side dish for anything Nicoise or
Spanish or Greek or Egyptian. Or make a meal of them by adding a bowl of
yoghurt, a bowl of chopped onion, some black olives, radishes, and
pistachios, and lots of warm pita bread.  Or use it with saut\z\(aaeed
garlic and pitted black olives and a little reduced white wine as a spaghetti
sauce.
.IH "Serves 4"
.IG "1 lb" "fresh red peppers" "500 g"
(sweet red capsicum peppers)
.IG "\(14 cup" "lemon juice" "50 ml"
.IG "" "salt"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat broiler as hot as you can get it.
Turn red peppers under the broiler until their skins come up in black bubbles.
Cool the peppers until you can handle them comfortably.
.SK 2
Remove the skins, stems, cores, and seeds.
(This is messy work.  I have tried removing the innards first,
before putting the peppers under the broiler, and the result is not
so good as this way.)
.SK 3
Cut the peppers into finger shapes.  Flavor them with fresh lemon juice
and salt.
.SK 4
Let them sit for several hours, draining off the liquid that forms.
.NX
Now.  Here is the real point about this recipe:  These roasted peppers
are insanely delicious, smooth and unctuous and aromatic, and yet
they contain absolutely no calories.  A full-sized red pepper is only
15 calories.
.PP
Of \fIcourse\fR I could lose weight if I never ate more than three
tablespoons of anything.  Any fool could do that.  But I don't want
to confine myself to three tablespoons.  Perhaps my tastebuds work
more slowly that other people's.  I don't seem to get the hang of
what I'm eating till the second serving, or sometimes the third.
.PP
At the same time, I want things that are really voluptuous and good
to eat, full of interesting, complicated flavors that will satisfy
me and make me feel happy and rewarded.  Again, any fool could lose
weight by eating celery stalks and carrots.  Unfortunately, any number
of carrot sticks over six makes me grumpish, and raw celery turns
me positively surly in short order unless accompanied by delicious,
fattening sour cream and cream cheese.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, several hours aging.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Mary-Claire van Leunen
DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California, USA
mcvl@src.dec.com	-or-	decwrl!decsrc!mcvl

