.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: rhorn@infinet (Rob Horn)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Pizza dough I
Message-ID: <4097@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 11 Jul 86 03:38:42 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Infinet, Inc.  North Andover, MA
Lines: 52
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PIZZA-DOUGH-1 B "19 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "PIZZA DOUGH" "Simple pizza dough"
I don't remember where I learned this simple recipe for pizza dough.
It makes enough dough for two 
.AB "12\(mu18" "30\(mu40"
pan pizzas. I like it because it is so easy
to memorize and it makes good
.AB "pizzas." "pizzas. Of course, it is not quite as easy to memorize in its metric rendering."
.IH "2 pizza crusts"
.IG "5 cups" "flour" "500 g"
.IG "2 pkgs" "active dry yeast" "15 g"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "sugar" "30 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "salt" "10 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "water" "500 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Mix all of the dry ingredients first, then add the water.
It will appear to be too dry. Do not add water.
Keep working the dough until it is
smooth.  (This requires a little faith but it really works).
.SK 2
Let the dough rise once (approx 1 hour). Punch it down and knead again.
.SK 3
At this point you may choose to freeze some of the dough.  If you
do freeze it, be sure to wrap it well and freeze it quickly.
With either fresh or thawed dough, let the dough rise a second time.
.SK 4
After it has risen, punch it down and use it for your pizza. 
The dough will rise a little while you put the rest of your pizza toppings
on it.  Then bake as appropriate for pizza thickness and toppings.
.NX
I have tried variations like whole wheat, and just about any flour combination
that works for bread works for pizza dough.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes preparation, 2 hours rising.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
R  Horn
Infinet, Inc.  North Andover, MA
{decvax, seismo!harvard}!wanginst!infinet!rhorn
