.ig
From: reid@decwrl.UUCP (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Jordan Pond House popovers
Date: 30 Nov 85 10:39:40 GMT
Organization: DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE POND-POPOVERS B "29 Nov 85" 1986
.RZ "JORDAN POND HOUSE POPOVERS" "Popovers from the Jordan Pond teahouse"
In Acadia National Park, near Bar Harbor Maine, is Jordan Pond. A century
ago the teahouse at Jordan Pond was a gathering place where the aristocracy
had tea and popovers with strawberry jam each day at 4 o'clock.
.PP
The Jordan Pond Tea House burned down in 1978, but has been rebuilt. It now
serves people sporting clothes announcing ``mommy and daddy went to Naugatuck,
and all they brought me was this crummy shirt'', and who show up in station
wagons, but the popovers are the same that were served to the idle rich of
another era.
.IH "2 large popovers"
.IG "2" "large eggs"
.IG "1 cup" "whole milk" "250 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "all-purpose flour" "100 g"
.AB "(Important! Sift before measuring!!)" ""
.IG "\(12 tsp" "salt" "2.5 ml"
.IG "1/8 tsp" "baking soda" "1 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 425 220 .
Beat the eggs at high speed with an electric mixer for 3 minutes, or until
the mixture turns lemon yellow.
.SK 2
Slow the mixer to a crawl, and dribble in 
.AB "\(12 cup" "125 ml"
of milk, taking about 20 seconds to pour it in.
.SK 3
Into another bowl,
.AB "sift the flour and measure 1 cup as exactly as you can," "sift 100 g flour"
then add salt and
baking soda and sift again. With the mixer still running on its slowest
speed, add the dry ingredients to the eggs and milk.
.SK 4
Turn the mixer off and 
use a rubber spatula to make sure that all of the flour has blended in with
the liquid.
.SK 5
Set the mixer to medium speed and dribble in the remaining
milk. Blend for 1 minute.
.SK 6
Turn the mixer to its highest speed and beat for 10 minutes (or 5 minutes if
you have a Kitchen-aid style mixer that uses a wire whip for beating). Extra
beating can't hurt.
.SK 7
Filter the batter through a fine-mesh screen strainer to remove any lumps,
then pour into well-buttered popover cups or custard cups. (If you must use a
muffin tin, fill only the 4 corners.)
.SK 8
Bake at
.TE 425 220
for 15 minutes. Without opening the oven, turn heat to
.TE 350 175
and bake for 15 more minutes (20 minutes if your oven door has a window).
.NX
Serve immediately, with fresh jam and room-temperature butter.
.PP
These popovers turn out significantly better if they are baked in crockery
custard cups rather than in metal or glass.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, 30 minutes baking.
.I Precision:
measure carefully.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun,pyramid}!decwrl!reid
