.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: stephenw@murdu.oz (Stephen Withers)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Pork chops Italiano
Message-ID: <7343@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 2 Jan 87 04:49:32 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia
Lines: 57
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PORK-CHOPS-1 M "8 Oct 86" 1987
.RZ "PORK CHOPS ITALIANO" "Pork chops simmered in tomato and onion"
Apologies to anyone of Italian descent\(emI'm sure this dish will seem
a slander on your culinary heritage, but that's the way I learned this
recipe. 
.PP
As much as I like grilled pork chops, I enjoy a change.  
This recipe isn't \fIhaute cuisine\fR, but I think it is particularly
good when you get home from work on a cold, wet evening. The preparation
is fairly quick, and it leaves you time to warm up in front of the fire
with a cup of tea and read a newspaper.
.IH "Serves 2"
.IG "2" "pork loin chops"
.IG "10\(12 oz" "condensed tomato soup" "300 ml"
(1 small can)
.IG "1" "green pepper,"
sliced
.IG "1" "onion,"
diced
.IG "1" "bay leaf"
.IG "" "oil for frying"
.IG "" "salt and pepper"
.PH
.SK 1
Heat the oil in a saucepan or frying pan (choose one with a
lid).  Season both sides of the chops with salt and pepper to taste.
Brown the chops quickly on both sides.  Remove from the pan.
.SK 2
Fry the onions until soft, but not brown.  You may need to add a little more
fat, but I prefer to use as little as possible.
.SK 3
Return the chops to the pan, add the tomato soup, green pepper, and bay
leaf.  Bring to the boil, then simmer gently for 30\-40 minutes, or until
the chops are cooked.
.NX
I serve this with rice.  If you like brown rice, it has the advantage of
taking as long to cook as the rest of the meal, so you get an uninterrupted
half-hour.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, 40 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
No need to measure.
.WR
Stephen Withers,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia
stephenw@murdu.oz
