.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: oday@hplabsz.hpl.HP.COM (Vicki O'Day)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Bacon potato pie
Message-ID: <12794@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 13 May 88 06:11:50 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California, USA
Lines: 65
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE POTATO-PIE-1 M "23 Nov 87" 1988
.RZ "BACON POTATO PIE" "A brunch casserole with potatoes, eggs, bacon, and cheese"
This is a very easy brunch dish, similar to a fritatta in texture,
but full of traditional breakfast ingredients.  The recipe
comes from a cookbook published by the Contra Costa (California)
\fITimes\fR newspaper, called "Tastes of the Times".
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "1 lb" "bacon," "500 g"
thick-sliced and lean
.IG "1" "onion"
.IG "1 lb" "baking potatoes" "500 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "cheddar cheese" "250 g"
.IG "8" "eggs"
.PH
.SK 1
Cut the bacon slices into square pieces.
Fry the pieces until well-cooked, then drain on
paper towels.
.SK 2
Peel the potatoes, then grate them.  To prevent the
grated potatoes from discoloring while you prepare
the other ingredients, you can put them into a bowl
of cold water.  When you're ready to use them, be sure
to drain well and squeeze them dry.
.SK 3
Grate the cheese.  Mince the onion.
.SK 4
Butter a
.AB "9\(mu13 inch" "22\(mu33 cm"
shallow baking dish.  Preheat the oven to
.TE 350 175 .
.SK 5
Beat the eggs in a large bowl.  Add all the other ingredients
and stir.  Pour the mixture into the baking dish and bake
in the preheated oven for about 45 minutes, or until the
eggs are cooked.  Serve hot, warm or at room temperature.
.NX
It really does make a difference if you use good meaty bacon
for this.  I find the best bacon at my local butcher shop.
.PP
You can prepare part of this ahead.  I think egg dishes are
better if they haven't been refrigerated.  So if you want to
work ahead, you can cook the bacon, grate the cheese and potatoes
and mince the onion the night before.  Store all these things
separately in the refrigerator, covering the potatoes with water.
Then in the morning just mix it all up and bake it.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate (tedious).
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 hour baking and cooling.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Vicki O'Day
Hewlett Packard Laboratories
oday@hplabs.hp.com
