.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: kent@decwrl.DEC.COM (Christopher A. Kent)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: potstickers
Message-ID: <5045@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 29 Aug 86 05:31:59 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto CA
Lines: 140
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE POTSTICKERS A "22 May 86" 1986
.RZ "POTSTICKERS" "Delicious Northern Chinese snack and hacker's staple"
Hackers on both coasts and most places in between love potstickers (though
if you're from the Right Coast, you probably know them as Peking Ravioli,
or just \fIravs\fR.
This recipe is based on one found in \fIChef Chu's Distinctive Cuisine of
China\fR.
Total preparation time is about 45 minutes.
They don't come out as good as the ones from Cho's in Mountain View, but
if you don't happen to be within 45 minutes of Mountain View, they'll do
very nicely, thank you.
.IH "Makes about 2 dozen"
.SH		DOUGH
.IG "2 cups" "all-purpose flour" "200 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "water" "125 ml"
.SH		FILLING
.IG "\(12 lb" "ground pork" "250 g"
.IG "\(12" "small Chinese (Napa) cabbage,"
cored and chopped
.IG "1" "green onion,"
coarsely chopped
.IG "2" "thumb-sized slices fresh ginger,"
minced
.IG "2" "water chestnuts,"
chopped
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
.IG "\(12 tsp" "sugar" "2.5 ml"
.IG "pinch" "white pepper" "0.5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "sesame oil" "5 ml"
.SH		TO COOK
.IG "5 Tbsp" "vegetable oil" "75 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "water" "250 ml"
.SH		SAUCE
.IG "" "hot chili oil"
.IG "" "red rice vinegar"
.IG "" "soy sauce"
.PH
.SK 1
In a bowl, combine flour and water, mixing to form a ball. 
Remove to a floured board and knead with your palm for about 3 minutes.
Shape into a ball, cover with a damp towel, and let stand for about 10
minutes.
.SK 2
Make the filling by combining the \fIFilling\fR ingredients above.
Refrigerate until ready to use.
.SK 3
To shape and assemble, knead dough for about 3 minutes.
Roll into a cylinder that is about 
.AB "1 inch" "2.5 cm"
in diameter.
Cut off the ends, then cut into about 24 pieces, each about 
.AB "\(34-inch" "1 cm"
wide.
With the cut side up, press the dough down with your palm to flatten.
Use a rolling pin to make pancakes about
.AB "2\(12\-3 inches" "6\-7 cm"
in diameter.
(They get quite thin; that's what you want.)
.SK 4
Spoon
.AB "1 tablespoon" "15 ml"
of filling into the center of each pancake.
Fold the dough over to make a half circle and pleat the edges firmly
together.
.SK 5
To pan-fry, heat cast-iron or other heavy-bottom skillet over moderate
heat.
Add
.AB "3 Tbsp" "50 ml"
oil, swirling to coat bottom. 
(Watch out, it sizzles quite a bit. Don't get burned!)
When oil is hot, place potstickers, seam side up, in skillet and 
agitate (shake) for 30 seconds.
Pour in water, cover, and gently boil over moderate heat for 7
to 8 minutes. 
When oil and water start to sizzle, add remaining 
.AB "2 Tbsp" "25 ml"
oil. Tip skillet to distribute oil evenly; watch carefully
(uncovered) to prevent sticking. 
When bottoms are brown (usually several minutes later), remove from
heat and carefully lift out potstickers with spatula.
.SK 6
To serve, turn potstickers over (dark side up) and arrange on serving
platter.
Combine chili oil, vinegar, and soy sauce in proportions to
suit your taste and offer sauce for dipping.
Alternatively, cut up a hot chili pepper into red rice vinegar.
.NX
You can freeze uncooked potstickers for later use, if you
squeeze out the water from the cabbage during preparation (in a colander or
cheesecloth). 
Freeze potstickers separately on cookie sheets until
firm, then put them in plastic bags.
.PP
When rolling out the pancakes, leave the centers slightly thicker
than the edges. A thicker center will hold up better during the browning.
.PP
If you prefer, steam potstickers for about 12 minutes over boiling
water instead of pan-frying.
(No self-respecting hacker would be caught eating steamed potstickers,
though.)
.PP
These are really not hard to make, and come out quite nicely! Following
the dough recipe above leads to a fairly dry and floury dough; this
makes it hard to roll out and pleat. Feel free to add a little more
water. There are also now commercially available potsticker presses that
take care of folding and pleating; they're cheap and plastic and work
rather well.
.PP
The perfect potsticker is uniformly brown with a thick brown area on
the bottom (where it sticks to the pot); it seems that achieving this only
comes with practice.
I tend to fry both sides a bit before adding the water;
this helps. Beware of too much heat; the bottom will bubble and crack.
This doesn't taste any different, but doesn't look as nice. 
.PP
If you don't cook the whole batch at once, store the potstickers
so that they don't touch; the dough tends to stick to itself, so the
potstickers may tear as you remove them.
.PP
Many restaurants serve Hoy Sin sauce instead of hot sauce.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
45 minutes.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Chris Kent
DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, California
kent@decwrl.DEC.COM	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!kent
