.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: oday@hplabs.uucp (Vicki O'Day)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Pozole
Message-ID: <5864@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 10 Oct 86 07:41:13 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: H-P Labs, Palo Alto, California, U.S.A.
Lines: 76
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE POZOLE M "19 Jun 86" 1986
.RZ "POZOLE" "A simple New Mexican holiday stew"
This stew is from New Mexico. It is
traditionally served on special days, such as Christmas
Eve or New Year's Eve.
.IH "Serves 4\-4"
.IG "3 lb" "pork shoulder" "1.5 kg"
(or shoulder chops), with bones in
.IG "29 oz" "white hominy" "850 g"
(one can), with packing juice
.IG "5\-6" "garlic cloves"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "chili powder" "30 ml"
(or more to taste)
.IG "2 tsp" "salt" "10 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Put the pork shoulder piece(s) in a large kettle.  Don't bother
to cut them up.  Cover with cold water, about 
.AB "10 cups" "2.5 l" .
.SK 2
Slowly bring to a simmer, uncovered.  As it simmers for the first
10 minutes or so, skim off any scum that rises to the surface.
(It will stop appearing after this.)
.SK 3
Simmer, partially covered, for at least two hours.  Don't let too
much water boil away; just leave the lid a bit ajar so a small
amount of steam can escape.
.SK 4
Remove from heat.  Remove the pork pieces from the broth, and cut
the meat from the bones.  Discard the bones.  Cut the meat in
medium chunks (whatever size is appropriate for stew)
and return it to the broth.
.SK 5
Crush or mince the garlic.  Add the hominy with its juice, garlic,
chili powder and salt to the pork and broth.  Adjust the chili
powder to your taste.  The estimate here is for a mild store-bought
unblended spice, and will produce a mild pozole.  If you grind
your own chiles, they may be hotter.  If you use a blend of chili
powder and other spices (which is not recommended), you will
probably want to reduce the salt.  Remember that chili powder
becomes mellowed and less spicy as it cooks.
.SK 6
Return to heat, and simmer (partially covered as before) for
another two hours.  By this time, some of the meat will still
be in chunks, and some will be shredded.  Skim the grease from
the top; there may be quite a bit.  Check for salt before serving.
(Don't try to add anything else at the end; chili powder and
garlic need time to cook.)
.NX
I serve this with corn tortillas, wrapped in foil and warmed in the oven
for ten or fifteen minutes.
.PP
An alternate way of cooking the stew is to simmer the pork for at least
one hour, remove the bones and add the other ingredients as described
above, and cook covered in a slow oven 
.TE "(275" "(135" )
for several hours.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
1 hour preparation, 2 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
Approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Vicki O'Day
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California, U.S.A.
hplabs!oday
