.ig
From: guest@shasta.ARPA (Delight Covill)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Prinzregent Torte
Date: 21 Dec 85 06:45:15 GMT
Organization: Fairchild Camera and Instrument, Gaithersburg MD
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE PRINZ-TORTE D "14 Feb 83" 1986
.RZ "PRINZREGENT TORTE" "Austrian 8-layer chocolate cake"
I made this recipe for my boyfriend on his birthday and he asked me to marry
him (I did). I'm not saying for sure that the Prinzregent Torte is why Don
wanted to marry me, but I've always worried that it might have been. It is a
magnificent recipe that always evokes incredulous cries of pleasure from
people that I serve it to. The cake is a lot of work, so I only make it
about once a year, but the people that I make it for feel very special.
.IH "Serves 2\-8"
.SH		CAKE
.IG "9 oz" "salted butter" "260 g"
.IG "9 oz" "sugar" "210 g"
.IG "1/8 tsp" "vanilla extract" "0.5 ml"
.IG "4" "eggs,"
(large, or 5 medium)
beaten.
.IG "1 2/3 cups" "cake flour" "150 g"
.AB "(sift before measuring!!)" ""
.IG "\(12 cup" "cornstarch" "75 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "baking powder" "5 ml"
.SH		FILLING
.IG "2 cups" "chocolate pudding" "500 ml"
(extra strong)
.IG "7 oz" "unsalted butter" "200 g"
.IG "1 2/3 cup" "powdered 10X sugar" "220 g"
.SH		FROSTING
.IG "1 oz" "bitter cocoa powder" "30 ml"
.IG "1 oz" "melted sweet butter" "30 g"
.IG "3\-4 Tbsp" "boiling water" "40\-60 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
In an electric mixer,
whip the salted butter. Add sugar, vanilla, and eggs. Beat smooth.
.SK 2
Mix flour with cornstarch and baking powder and sift a second time (you
sifted it once before you measured it, right?). Add flour mixture to egg
mixture, stirring constantly.
.SK 3
Make 8 layers, each less than 
.AB "\(14 inch" "5 mm"
thick, by baking each in
the bottom of 
.AB "an 8-inch" "a 20-cm"
springform layer pan. Do this by cutting a round of
baker's parchment that exactly fits the bottom of the layer pan, then
using a spatula to spread the dough evenly over the parchment. Make sure
that it doesn't get too thin at the edges.
.SK 4
Bake each layer for 7 minutes in a preheated
.TE 400 200
oven. Stack the layers separated by waxed paper.
.SK 5
Make the pudding. Use more chocolate in the pudding than you would normally
use. If you want to be lazy and use pudding from a mix, then add
.AB "a tablespoon" "15 ml"
of top-quality cocoa to the pudding mix. Stir the pudding while
it cools so that it does not congeal.
.SK 6
Beat the unsalted butter until it is very smooth. When the butter and
pudding are about the same temperature, add the pudding to the butter to get
an even, smooth buttercream.
.SK 7
Use the pudding/butter mixture as mortar, and layer the cake together,
spreading the pudding/butter evenly between the layers. Make sure the layers
are even, and parallel; if they are not, or if one is not straight, you can
mend things with a little extra pudding here and there. Do not put pudding
on top of the topmost layer, and try not to get too much on the outside
edges.
.SK 8
Make a chocolate frosting: sift the powdered 10X sugar and cocoa together,
add the melted butter while stirring constantly, then add boiling water.
.SK 9
Frost the cake, taking pains to make sure the sides are perfectly smooth and
the top is perfectly smooth. Let the cake sit at cool room temperature for
at least an hour before serving.
.NX
If you are not an experienced baker, you should be warned that in recipes
like this it is important to measure exactly and to follow the instructions
exactly. People who prefer to cook by testing, tasting, and adding more
ingredients should avoid intricate baking.
.PP
These layers are baked in the bottom of a springform pan. Such a pan bottom
is 
.AB "8 inches" "20 cm"
in diameter, and has a raised lip that is about 
.AB "1/8 inch" "2 mm"
high.
It resembles a miniature pizza pan. I have never succeeded in making this
torte with layers bigger than
.AB "10 inches" "25 cm" ;
.AB "8 inches" "20 cm"
is easier. The baker's
parchment is crucial and there is no good substitute, though 
buttered kraft paper (from shopping bags) will work in a pinch. Use a new
piece of parchment for each layer. If you don't make the layers straight,
then when you pile them up, the cake will be mounded up in the middle or
will sag down in the middle or will tilt to one side.
.PP
If you are not an experienced cake froster, then make double the recipe of
frosting. Unskilled frosters usually use too much frosting, and you don't
really want to run out. You can charge money to people who want to lick the
spoon if there is any left over.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
rather difficult.
.I Time:
1 hour.
.I Precision:
measure carefully.
.WR
Delight Covill
Fairchild Camera and Instrument
