.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: suze@terak (Suzanne Barnett)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Busy day cobbler
Message-ID: <2590@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 26 Apr 86 21:37:30 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Calcomp/Sanders Display Products, Scottsdale AZ
Lines: 71
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE QUICK-COBBLER D "3 Mar 86" 1986
.RZ "BUSY DAY COBBLER" "An extremely quick cherry cobbler dessert"
This recipe came from a PTA recipe collection from my Aunt's school a
number of years ago. It's not a true, classic cobbler,
but I think it's better. My favorite dessert!
.IH "serves 6"
.IG "\(14 cup" "butter" "50 g"
(or margarine, if you must)
.IG "\(12 cup" "sugar" "100 g"
.IG "2/3 cup" "milk" "150 ml"
.IG "1 cup" "flour" "100 g"
.IG "2 tsp" "baking powder" "10 ml"
.IG "13 oz" "tart cherries" "400 g"
(one normal U.S. can)
.IG "2 Tbsp" "sugar" "20 g"
to sweeten and thicken (use less or more as needed)
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat oven to
.TE 350 175 .
.SK 2
Drain cherries, saving liquid.
.SK 3
Cream butter and sugar together.
.SK 4
Alternately add in milk and sifted dry ingredients.
.SK 5
Pour into a buttered and floured casserole dish.
.SK 6
Top evenly with cherries. Sprinkle sugar on top and cover with
saved liquid/juice.
.SK 7
Bake 45\-50 minutes.
.NX
The batter will expand and surround the cherries so they're
evenly mixed throughout the cobbler. The juice will congeal
to fruity and puddinglike. Serve warm topped with cream, milk
or ice cream. (I prefer milk). If any is left, it's good cold,
too.
.PP
As the name implies, this is a very quick recipe to make.
Depending on how soft the butter is to start with, or whether
or if you use a food processor (I don't, but it should work)
this recipe takes only 5 to 10 minutes to mix.
.PP
You can use any unsweetened canned fruit for this recipe.
You can also use frozen fruit, by thawing it before adding to the
pan. Berries or peaches are standard substitutes.
Yesterday I made one with crushed pineapple. I used brown,
rather than white sugar atop the fruit. It tasted very much
like pineapple upside down cake (though the appearance was a
bit different).
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy, I've been making this since I was about 8 or 9.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 45 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Suzanne Barnett-Scott
Calcomp/Sanders Display Products, Scottsdale, Arizona
suze@terak.UUCP
