.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@decwrl.dec.com (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Pepper rainbow soup
Message-ID: <11671@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 18 Sep 87 03:10:30 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, California, USA
Lines: 77
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE RAINBOW-SOUP SP "12 Sep 87" 1987
.RZ "PEPPER RAINBOW SOUP" "A light summer soup with multicolored peppers"
Every year in late summer, produce counters fill with multicolored
bell (capsicum) peppers. Green bell peppers, red bell peppers, yellow bell
peppers. Even purple bell peppers. Creative chefs try hard to take
advantage of the splash of colors, and make rainbow salads or rainbow
appetizers. Here is a different way to rejoice in multicolored peppers:
pepper soup. The peppers float to the top of a light broth and artfully
dodge your spoon as you try to eat them. 
.IH "Serves 6\-8"
.IG "6 cups" "chicken broth" "1.5 l"
.IG "1" "medium onion,"
chopped
.IG "2 cups" "cooked rice" "300 g"
.IG "4" "bell peppers,"
in assorted colors.
.IG "\(12 tsp" "savory" "2.5 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "chives" "10 ml"
.IG "2" "egg yolks"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "lemon juice" "30 ml"
.IG "" "salt and pepper,"
to taste
.PH
.SK 1
Bring the broth to a boil. Cook the rice.
.SK 2
Chop the onion and saut\z\(aae the pieces until they are golden brown.
Add to the broth. Add the savory and chives to the broth.
.SK 3
Clean the seeds and cores from the peppers and chop the
cleaned peppers into pieces. Set chopped peppers aside.
.SK 4
Add the rice to the broth and cook for 5 minutes.
.SK 5
Add the chopped peppers to the boiling broth and simmer
for 1 minute. 
Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks in a 2-cup bowl. 
.SK 6
Thicken the soup with the egg yolks by adding the hot soup to the beaten
yolks a little bit at a time, stirring constantly, until a cup or two
of soup has been added to the yolks. Dump this mixture back into the 
simmering broth. Add the lemon juice. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
Serve.
.NX
The thickening technique is identical to that used in \fIavgolemono\fR
recipes, which you can consult for more details.
.PP
The flavor and texture balance of the soup depends on the amount that
the peppers are cooked. The more you cook them, the more their flavor exudes
into the broth but the more they lose their texture. I find that about 2
minutes in simmering broth is the right amount.
.PP
You can have fun with colored geometric patterns as you cut the peppers. They
don't have to be chunks. You can cut the yellow peppers into circles and the
green peppers into long strips and the red peppers into cross sections and the
purple peppers into stocky triangles. Be creative. The colored shapes will
float to the top of the broth and play hide-and-seek with each other.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate (egg yolk thickening and pepper cooking require some practice).
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
No need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
decwrl!reid	-or-	reid@decwrl.dec.com
