.ig
From: reid@decwrl.UUCP (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Hot rum toddy
Date: 30 Nov 85 10:38:43 GMT
Organization: DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, CA
Approved: reid@glacier.UUCP

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE RUM-TODDY L "21 Jul 85" 1986
.RZ "HOT RUM TODDY" "Ultimate hot buttered rum recipe"
I started making hot buttered rum from a Trader Vic recipe 15 years ago, and
I have gradually evolved it by adding more spices, more butter, and less rum.
.PP
The way you make a hot buttered rum is to add some ``batter'' to some rum,
and heat it.
I like to keep a made-up batch of the batter in the refrigerator in an old
margarine tub. For parties I make up a fresh batch.
.IH "Serves 12"
.IG "1 lb" "dark brown sugar" "500 g"
.IG "\(12 lb" "salted butter" "250 g"
.IG "1 tsp" "ground nutmeg" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "ground cinnamon" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "ground cloves" "5 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "ground white cardamom" "5 ml"
.IG "750 ml" "top-quality dark rum"
(A standard ``fifth'' bottle, 750 ml, will serve 12)
.PH "MAKING THE BATTER"
.SK 1
Put all batter ingredients (everything but the rum) in a
food processor and run it until the mixture turns creamy. Fold it down once
with a rubber spatula to make sure the spices are blended in, and run the
food processor some more.
.SK 2
Scoop the mixture into a plastic container, and refrigerate. It will keep
for many months in the refrigerator, even though it contains butter.
.PH "MAKING THE DRINKS"
.SK 1
Fill a coffee mug half full of boiling water. The easiest way to do this is
to put a mug of hot water in the microwave. If you don't have a microwave,
then fill the mug with boiling water, pour it out, then fill it half full of
boiling water.
.SK 2
Add 
.AB "2 generous tablespoons" "40 ml"
of batter. Stir until the batter dissolves in the hot water. I use a small
wire whisk for this stirring.
.SK 3
Add 2 jiggers 
.AB "(3 oz)" "100 ml"
of the best rum you can afford. When I make this in
quantities for parties I like to use Myers Dark Rum. 
.NX
One theory of hot-toddy making is
that it is impossible to use too much batter and you
should keep stirring more in until you are bored with stirring.
Another
theory of hot-toddy making is that it is impossible to use too
much rum, and that you should keep stirring in more until your 
friends panic. 
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax,sun}!decwrl!reid
