.ig
From: cmiller@shasta.UUCP (Carole Miller)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Scrapple
Date: 21 Dec 85 06:45:55 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Laboratory
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SCRAPPLE-1 M "11 Dec 85" 1986
.RZ "SCRAPPLE" "Eastern-style scrapple (a breakfast food like sausage)"
I grew up in Maryland, and in Maryland people eat scrapple for breakfast.
Among my schoolmates, the story was that if you ever found out what was in
commercial scrapple you would stop eating it, and I did stop eating it for
many years. But now I know how to make my own. I got this recipe from the
University of Maryland poultry farming people, though I have added more
seasonings because they seem to like blander foods than I do.

.IH "serves 6 hungry farmers"
.IG "3 cups" "chicken broth" "750 ml"
.IG "1 1/3 cups" "cornmeal" "225 g"
(yellow)
.IG "1 Tbsp" "flour" "15 ml"
.IG "1 1/2 tsp" "salt" "7.5 ml"
.IG "1/4 tsp" "sage," "1 ml"
ground fine
.IG "1/4 tsp" "thyme," "1 ml"
ground fine
.IG "1/4 tsp" "cayenne" "1 ml"
.IG "2 pounds" "chicken parts" "1 kg"
.IG "1" "onion,"
chopped
.IG "6" "peppercorns"
(cracked\(emhit them with a hammer, perhaps)
.PH
.SK 1
Bring the chicken broth to a boil; add chopped onion and peppercorns.
Add chicken and cook until the meat falls off the bones (about 1 hour).
.SK 2
Strain the cooked chicken out of the broth and save the broth. Remove the
bones and inedible parts from the cooked chicken, then chop or grind the
cooked meat into fine pieces. Be careful if you use a food processor, so
that you don't pur\z\(aaee the meat.
.SK 3
Simmer the chicken broth in a large pan.
.SK 4
Mix cornmeal, flour, salt, thyme, sage, and cayenne with
.AB "1 cup" "250 ml"
of cold water. Stir well. Now slowly stir this mixture into the simmering
broth.
.SK 5
Add the cooked, ground chicken to the simmering pot. Simmer and stir for
about 5 minutes.
.SK 6
Pour hot mixture into well-greased loaf pans. Chill until firm.
.SK 7
To serve: remove from pan, cut into slices, roll in flour
or cornmeal, and fry in a greased frying pan.
.NX
Vary the amount of salt in this recipe to suit your taste. You can make
scrapple out of almost any meat, though chicken and pork are traditional.
For a different, and truly authentic Maryland taste, leave out the salt and
cayenne and substitute
.AB "2 tsp" "10 ml"
of \fIOld Bay\fR seasoning.
.PP
A loaf of home-made scrapple will keep for 10 days in the refrigerator, or
it can be cut into slices and frozen.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
1 hour preparation and cooking, several hours cooling, 5 minutes to fry.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Carole Miller
