.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: reid@glacier (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: U.S. Senate Bean Soup
Message-ID: <4683@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 8 Aug 86 05:16:48 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Lab
Lines: 81
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SENATE-SOUP SP "11 Jan 86" 1986
.RZ "SENATE BEAN SOUP" "Bean soup as served in the U.S. Senate dining room"
I lived in suburban Washington DC for most of my formative years. One of the
things that formed in the aforementioned years  was a strong impression that
the government was full of beans. One day on a school visit to my senator
I learned just how it was that the government got to be so full of beans, and
I came away with the recipe. This is one of the best soups I have ever
tasted. Serve it with a big loaf of fresh hot homemade whole-wheat bread,
from which people just tear the bread with their fingers.
.PP
The House of Representatives serves a version without the onions and garlic
and mashed potatoes.
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "1 lb" "dried Navy beans" "500 g"
.IG "1" "ham bone"
(get one with plenty of meat on it)
.IG "12 cups" "water" "3 l"
.IG "3" "medium onions,"
chopped fine.
.IG "3 cloves" "fresh garlic,"
minced.
.IG "3" "celery stalks,"
chopped fine.
.IG "1/4 cup" "fresh parsley," "10 g"
(chopped fine)
.IG "1 cup" "mashed potatoes" "250 ml"
.IG "1 tsp" "salt" "5 ml"
(or less to taste)
.IG "1/4 tsp" "pepper" "1 ml"
.IG "1/4 cup" "chopped fresh chives" "20 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Wash the beans and remove those that float in the wash water.
Soak beans overnight in enough water to cover them by several inches.
Drain.
.SK 2
In a large kettle, place 3
.AB "quarts" "liters"
of cold water. Add the drained beans and
the ham bone, and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, partially covered,
for 2 hours. If scum forms on the surface, skim it off. 
.SK 3
Chop the onions, garlic, celery, and parsley. Add to the pot. Add the mashed
potato to the pot. Simmer 1 more hour. Check the beans. If they are not yet
tender, then simmer some more.
.SK 4
Add salt and pepper. Remove the ham bone and pull the meat from it. Cut the
meat into small chunks, and toss them back into the soup.
.SK 5
Serve piping hot into preheated bowls, and sprinkle chopped fresh chives atop
each.
.NX
Great Northern beans are an adequate substitute for Navy beans. If you
forgot to soak them overnight and still want to make the soup, you can
simmer them for an hour and then discard that water. The beans end up with
slightly more flavor if you cold-soak them.
.PP
You can almost
certainly get away with using instant mashed potato flakes to acquire the
.AB "1 cup" "250 ml"
of mashed potatoes that this recipe calls for.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
8 hours soaking, 10 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research, Palo Alto, California
reid@decwrl.dec.com		{ihnp4,decvax}!decwrl!reid

