.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: diamond@andromeda (Robert Diamond)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Stuffed shrimp with bacon
Message-ID: <5434@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 19 Sep 86 03:28:48 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey
Lines: 51
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SHRIMP-BACON A "19 May 86" 1986
.RZ "STUFFED SHRIMP WITH BACON" "A high-cholesterol appetizer with shrimp, cheese, and bacon"
.IH "Serves 2\-4"
.IG "12" "large shrimp"
(The larger the better)
.IG "1 lb" "low moisture mozzarella" "500 g"
.IG "1 lb" "bacon" "500 g"
(as little fat as possible)
.PH
.SK 1
Steam shrimp lightly\(emjust about 30\-60 seconds after they begin to turn
orange.
.SK 2
Plunge shrimp into ice water to cool. Do this immediately.
.SK 3
Peel and butterfly the shrimp.
.SK 4
Cut the mozzarella into strips that are a little smaller than the shrimp.
.SK 5
Put mozzarella in shrimp and (this is important) roll shrimp from tail to
head while it is open (butterflied).  This keeps the cheese from leaking.
.SK 6
Wrap shrimp-cheese roll in \(12 slice of bacon and put on skewer.
.SK 7
Cook on grill or barbecue, over moderate heat, until bacon looks done.
.NX
When shrimp are butterflied, cut them almost all the way through
so they can lay flat when open.  This makes them easier to roll.
The fire will flare up due to bacon fat.  Turn the skewers often to cook
evenly.  The bacon should be slightly charred when done.
The reason why the shrimp are cooked lightly first is that they tend to
cook slower than the bacon.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 5 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Robert Diamond
Rutgers University, Newark, New Jersey
diamond@andromeda
