.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: yduJ@edsel.uucp (Judy Anderson)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Dirty snowballs (chocolate cookies)
Message-ID: <12397@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 25 Mar 88 16:50:30 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Lucid, Inc. Menlo Park, Calif., USA
Lines: 65
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1988 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SNOWBALL-2 D "5 Nov 87" 1988
.RZ "DIRTY SNOWBALLS" "Chocolate cookies with powdered sugar coating"
This recipe was handed down to me from my step-sister who got it from her
mother.
.IH "Several dozen"
.IG "\(12 cup" "vegetable oil" "120 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "granulated sugar" "400 g"
.IG "4 oz" "unsweetened chocolate" "120 g"
.IG "4" "eggs"
.IG "2 tsp" "vanilla" "10 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "baking powder" "10 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "flour" "200 g"
.IG "1 cup" "powdered sugar" "150 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Melt chocolate in double boiler or microwave.
.SK 2
Combine melted chocolate, granulated sugar,
vanilla, and vegetable oil in a mixer.
.SK 3
Add eggs, one at a time, blending well each time.
Sift (or stir) together flour and baking
powder, add to wet mixture. Mix well.
.SK 4
Let stand in refrigerator for a few hours or overnight.
Roll dough into small balls (no more than
.AB "1 inch" "3 cm"
in diameter), and roll in powdered sugar until coated.
.SK 5
Bake for 12 minutes in a preheated
.TE 350 175
oven.
.NX
The temperature is very important: any lower and the cookies
won't bake properly; any higher and the powdered sugar will glaze.
.PP
If you coat your palms with powdered sugar before attempting to roll the
balls your hands will get less sticky.  Put the dough back in the
refrigerator whenever you are not actively using it; it is easier to
work when cold.
.PP
You don't actually have to bake these: they make a reasonable fudge
when left uncooked, but if left in the
refrigerator for several days before baking they will become dried out.
When done, the unused powdered sugar will have small shards of chocolate in
it; these can be strained out and the sugar will be re-usable.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, overnight chilling, 20 minutes baking and cooling.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Judy Anderson
Lucid, Inc., Menlo Park, California, USA
edsel!yduj@labrea.stanford.edu
