.ig
From: bill@hppsd2 (Bill Turner)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Sourdough Starter
Date: 16 Jan 86 08:36:14 GMT
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA
Organization: Hewlett-Packard Personal Software Div., Santa Clara CA

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SOUR-START B "2 Jan 86" 1986
.RZ "SOURDOUGH STARTER" "Starter culture for making sourdough bread"
Many people think of sourdough as something from the Gold Rush days.  Not so!
Sourdough was the first way raised breads were made.  ``Way back then,''
there was no such thing as active dry yeast, and all breads
(along with a number of other goodies) needed sourdough starter to rise.
.PP
There are a number of recipes for sourdough starter, but this is one I've
used, and it works fairly well. 
It came originally from the cookbook
\fIThe Complete Sourdough Cookbook\fR by Don Holm.
.IH "makes 3 cups" "makes 750 ml"
.IG "2 cups" "warm water" "500 ml"
(about 
.TE 110 45 ")"
.IG "2\(12 cups" "flour" "500 g"
.IG "1 pkg" "active dry yeast" "7 g"
(optional)
.PH
.SK 1
Get a container for the starter.  Crockery is best, but just about anything
can be used, \fBexcept metal\fR.  Try to get something with a lid.  I use a
vinyl plastic food-storage container.
.SK 2
Mix flour and water (and optionally yeast).
.SK 3
Let the starter sit (uncovered or loosely covered) in a warm place until 
bubbly and sour, about 3\-5 days.
.NX
If you do a lot of bread baking, there will probably be enough yeast spores
floating around your kitchen so that the added yeast isn't needed.  The less
yeast you add to the starter, the more ``authentic'' the flavor.
.PP
If the starter starts turning orange or green, throw it away.  Other nasty
things have started growing in it!
.PP
After the starter is ready, it can be used immediately.  Try to use some of
the starter once every few days, or it will start to die.  The starter can
be refrigerated to last longer (use at least every other week).  Make sure 
the starter is at room temperature before using.
.PP
After using some of the starter, replenish what you take with equal amounts
of warm water and flour.  Let the starter sit until nice and bubbly before
using again.
.PP
Usually, the first starter made will need a while to ``come up to strength.''
Best bets for first recipes are ones that don't require much raising, such as
pancakes, or ones that have additional yeast.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 5 days waiting.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Bill Turner
Hewlett-Packard Personal Software Division, Santa Clara CA
{hplabs!}hppsdc!bill
