.ig
From: anita@utastro (Anita Cochran)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Sausage spaghetti sauce with eggplant
Date: 14 Feb 86 06:11:47 GMT
Organization: Astronomy Dept., The Univ. of Texas, Austin
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SPAGH-SAUCE-1 M "05 Feb 86" 1986
.RZ "SAUSAGE SPAGHETTI SAUCE" "Spaghetti sauce with sausage, mushrooms, and eggplant"
I made up this recipe the other day to use up some eggplant.
It was an instant hit.
.IH "serves 13"
.IG "1 lb" "Italian sausage" "500 g"
.IG "2" "medium onions"
.IG "\(12 lb" "mushrooms" "250 g"
.IG "1" "small eggplant"
.IG "1" "small green pepper"
(or use frozen diced pepper)
.IG "1" "medium tomato"
.IG "8 oz" "tomato sauce" "250 ml"
(1 standard can)
.IG "" "salt, pepper, oregano"
to taste
.PH
.SK 1
Slice the sausage into bite-size morsels and saut\z\(aae until browned.
While the sausages are browning, cut up the vegetables as indicated
in step 2.  Remove from pan leaving fat for next step.
.SK 2
Slice the onions and the mushrooms.  Cut the peppers into
.AB "\(12-inch" "1-cm"
squares and dice the tomato.  Cut the  eggplant into a julienne style.
.SK 3
Add a little oil to the pan and saut\z\(aae the onions, peppers, mushrooms,
eggplant and tomato until the onions are transparent and soft.
Add the tomato sauce and the spices and return the sausage to the
pan.  Cook about 15 minutes.   Serve with fettucine.
.NX
Zucchini can be substituted for the eggplant, and canned tomatoes
can be substituted for the tomato and sauce.  The sauce should be 
relatively thick.  The sausage can be hot or mild Italian sausage,
but if you use mild sausage you will need to add more spices.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Anita Cochran
Astronomy Dept., The Univ. of Texas, Austin, TX
{noao, ut-sally, ut-ngp}!utastro!anita	arpa:  anita@astro.UTEXAS.EDU  
