.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: tovah@cepu (Tovah Hollander)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Castillian chocolate
Message-ID: <7759@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 23 Jan 87 04:46:56 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SPANISH-COCOA B "13 Nov 86" 1987
.RZ "CASTILLIAN HOT CHOCOLATE" "Thick, rich Spanish hot chocolate"
I first tasted this wonderful beverage while touring in
northern Spain with a choir.
It's not like any hot chocolate I've had anywhere else,
and I was
delighted to find a recipe in \fIThe Vegetarian
Epicure Book Two\fR. It is the best hot chocolate in the world (at least to
me.)
.IH "Serves 6"
.IG "\(12 cup" "unsweetened powdered cocoa" "55 g"
.IG "1 cup" "sugar" "200 g"
.IG "7 tsp" "cornstarch" "25 g"
(cornflour)
.IG "\(12 cup" "water" "120 ml"
.IG "4 cups" "milk" "1 l"
.PH
.SK 1
Mix the cocoa and sugar together.
.SK 2
Dissolve the cornstarch (cornflour) in the water and combine
with the cocoa-sugar mixture in a medium-sized saucepan.
Stir this until it is a smooth paste.
.SK 3
Begin heating this mixture, continuously stirring it with a whisk.
Gradually pour in the milk.
Continue stirring as you bring it to a simmer.
.SK 4
Simmer, stirring often, for about 10 minutes.
The cocoa is ready when it thickens and is glossy and smooth.
.NX
The consistency of the finished product should resemble
chocolate pudding that didn't quite set.
If you halve this recipe, you'll get just the right amount for
two large mug-fulls.
This cocoa is especially fantastic when you dip churros into
it (a churro is a sugary, deep-fried, doughnut-like stick,
and if anyone wants to send out a recipe, I'd be most
grateful).
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
15 minutes.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Tovah Hollander
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California USA
{sdcrdcf,hao}!cepu!tovah
