.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: mcvl@magic.DEC (Mary-Claire van Leunen)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Kate Ashcroft's summer pudding
Message-ID: <5436@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 19 Sep 86 03:30:22 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California
Lines: 61
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE SUMMER-PUDDING D "19 May 86" 1986
.RZ "KATE ASHCROFT'S SUMMER PUDDING" "Uncooked fruit and bread pudding"
Here is my friend Kate Ashcroft's Yorkshire version of the dessert
known as ``summer pudding''.
.IH "Serves 8"
.IG "6 cups" "bramble fruit" "1.5 l"
(see note)
.IG "1 lb" "whole wheat bread" "500 g"
.IG "" "raw sugar"
.IG "" "heavy cream"
.PH
.SK 1
In a 
.AB "two-quart" "two-liter"
pudding mold, crush but don't sieve the fruit.
Sweeten to taste with raw sugar (not brown sugar).
.SK 2
Tear into
small pieces enough homemade whole-wheat bread, crust and all, to pack
the mold till it's full.
.SK 3
Refrigerate the pudding for
something between 6 and 24 hours.
.SK 4
Don't even dream of unmolding
it, just spoon it out and serve it with heavy unsweetened cream.
.NX
For ``bramble fruit'' use some berry that grows on a brambly vine.
Raspberries, blackberries, presumably huckleberries
and ollalie berries.  Some currants are OK, some gooseberries are OK,
even some blueberries are OK, but no strawberries, they don't fit the
mood.
.PP
Day-old bread is better than dead fresh for
this recipe, but not older than a day.
.PP
For contrast, here is the standard version:  In a two-quart pudding
mold, truck out one pint of Woolworth's raspberry jam with enough
Golden Syrup to make a quart and a half of goo.  Tear into small pieces
enough stale crumb, not crust, of bakery white bread to pack the mold
till it's full.  Refrigerate the pudding for six weeks.  Serve with
Bird's Custard Sauce.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
10 minutes preparation, 6 hours cooling.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Mary-Claire van Leunen
Digital Equipment Corp., Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California
mcvl@magic.DEC.COM	ihnp4!decwrl!mcvl
