.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pam McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Tex-Mex enchiladas
Message-ID: <7425@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Jan 87 04:46:20 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 120
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

  This recipe uses a macro feature that was not present in early versions of
  mod.recipes, namely an argument to the "PROCEDURE" header. The version of
  the macros that is needed to process this recipe has been distributed since
  July 1987, so I feel it is now in order to start using it. Those of you who
  are using old or customized versions of the recipe macros should pick up
  that change if you want this recipe. 
	  Brian Reid, Editor.
  
..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TEXMEX-ENCHIL M "22 Dec 83" 1987
.RZ "TEX-MEX STYLE ENCHILADAS" "Central Texas style Mexican enchiladas"
We cook beef enchiladas in two ways\(emthe traditional rolled enchilada
and the easier-to-cook New Mexico stacked style.  Both procedures are given.
Also, we used to cook the enchilada sauce/chili from scratch but more
recently began using a shortcut with canned Old El Paso brand enchilada
sauce, since it is not only faster (20 minutes vs. 4+ hours) but also has
a very authentic spice combination.
.IH "Serves 6\-8"
.IG "2 lb" "extra lean ground beef" "1 kg"
(as little fat as possible)
.IG "2" "medium onions,"
chopped
.IG "4 Tbsp" "flour" "25 g"
.IG "2\(12 cups" "enchilada sauce" "600 ml"
(2 standard cans)
.IG "1 lb" "sharp cheddar cheese," "500 g"
grated
.PH "(SAUCE AND FILLING)"
.SK 1
Brown ground beef and 1 chopped onion in a large skillet.
There should be enough fat in the beef to eliminate any need for extra oil
and also to saut\z\(aae the onions at the same time.
While you are browning the beef
(it should be completely cooked with no pink or red color left), be sure to
break it up so that it is granular in texture, as opposed to chunky, when
completely browned.  Onions should be limp and translucent but not brown.
.SK 2
Add about 4 Tbsp of flour and saut\z\(aae until flour is completely
incorporated into the meat mixture.  
.SK 3
Add the enchilada sauce. Heat
over low heat.  If the mixture is too thick, add a little water.  The
consistency should be that of a thick gravy, but not soupy.
Simmer over low heat for 20\-30 minutes. 
.PH "(ROLLED ENCHILADAS)"
.SK 1
Rolled enchiladas are tougher to assemble, but more authentic.
Have ready a large baking pan\(emwe always use an oblong Pyrex pan.
.SK 2
One at a time, dip each tortilla in the enchilada sauce just enough to coat
and slightly soften.
.SK 3
Lay the tortilla flat in the baking pan, spoon about
.AB "3 Tbsp" "50 ml"
of the enchilada sauce in a line down the middle, top with about
.AB "1 tsp" "5 ml"
chopped onion and about
.AB "3 Tbsp" "50 ml"
of grated cheese.
.SK 4
Roll the tortilla tightly into a 
cylinder \fIwith the seam on the bottom\fR, and position against the bottom
edge of the baking pan. Repeat until the pan is full. This can get tricky (but
it is possible) as the pan gets full.  Assembling the enchilada outside of
the pan is usually a messy disaster.  Depending on the size of the pan
and how tightly each enchilada is rolled, you can get 8\-12 enchiladas in a
pan.  This recipe should make about 16\-24 enchiladas.
.SK 5
Spoon enchilada sauce over the assembled
enchiladas to thinly cover.  Sprinkle generously
with grated cheese. Bake at
.TE 425 220
for 20 minutes.
.PH "(STACKED ENCHILADAS)"
.SK 1
This is the New Mexico style. It is much easier to assemble.
Have plates ready.  One at a time, submerge each tortilla in the enchilada
sauce (which should be cooking on low heat during this process) and cook
until limp but not falling apart\(emthis may take a little practice to
gauge the time. 
.SK 2
Remove the tortilla from the sauce and place flat on a
plate.  Spoon a little sauce, including meat, over the tortilla, add
.AB "1 Tbsp" "15 ml"
chopped onion and about
.AB "4 Tbsp" "50 ml"
grated cheese.
.SK 3
Repeat the process untill
you have a stack of 3\-4 tortillas on a plate, depending on the appetite of
the person who will eat them.
Top the last tortilla with a generous amount of sauce and cheese. 
Serve immediately.
.NX
The fundamental difference between these two styles is the method used to cook
the tortillas.  In the rolled style, the sauce is cooked into the tortilla
through the baking process.  In the stacked style, the tortilla is cooked
directly in the sauce.  Only the appearance differs\(emthe taste is the
same with either style.
.PP
I always use Old El Paso canned enchilada sauce, though it is possible to
make your own.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
1 hour.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
