.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pam McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Tex-Mex tacos
Message-ID: <7423@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Jan 87 04:44:57 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 88
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TEXMEX-TACOS M "22 Dec 83" 1987
.RZ "TEX-MEX STYLE TACOS" "San Antonio, Texas style tacos"
My dad is from east Texas and my mom from southern Oklahoma, but they
developed their definition of Tex-Mex from several years in San Antonio.
Since they now live in D.C., they feel extremely deprived\(emnone of the
chain restaurants come anywhere near the taste they developed in San Antonio.
.PP 
Tex-Mex cooking is based on peasant-style dishes from the areas of Mexico
bordering Texas.
The primary ingredients of Tex-Mex cooking
are corn tortillas (the thinner the better),
ground beef, pinto beans, and hot chile powder,
sharp Cheddar cheese, and onions.
.IH "1 dozen tacos"
.IG "2 lb" "extra lean ground beef" "1 kg"
.IG "1" "medium onion,"
chopped fine.
.IG "\(12 tsp" "salt" "2.5 ml"
.IG "4 Tbsp" "chile powder" "60 ml"
(or more to taste)
.IG "" "vegetable oil"
.IG "12" "corn tortillas"
(the thinner the better)
.IG "\(12 lb" "sharp Cheddar cheese," "250 g"
grated
.IG "1" "large tomato,"
chopped.
.IG "3 cups" "shredded lettuce" "500 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Brown the ground beef and chopped onion in a large skillet.
There should be enough fat in the beef to eliminate any need for extra oil
and also to saut\z\(aae the onions at the same time.
While you are browning the beef
(it should be completely cooked with no pink or red color left), be sure to
break it up so that it is granular in texture, as opposed to chunky, when
completely browned.  Onions should be limp and translucent but not brown.
.SK 2
Drain off as much fat as possible.  Add salt and 
chile powder and continue to saut\z\(aae until the chile is completely
incorporated into the meat mixture. Cover skillet and leave
on extremely low heat\(emjust enough to keep the meat hot.
.SK 3
Put about
.AB "\(12 inch" "1 cm"
of vegetable oil in a small skillet, and heat it.
Test the oil for proper temperature
by putting in a small piece of tortilla.  When the oil reaches the temperature
where it immediately begins to bubble frantically over the tortilla as soon
as it is put in the oil and the tortilla piece becomes crisp quite quickly,
you are ready to cook the taco shells.  This is important because there is
nothing worse than a soggy taco shell (which results from the oil not being
hot enough).
.SK 4
Using tongs, put the tortillas in the oil, one at a time, 
and cook for 30\-60 seconds until the underside just starts to become crisp.
With the tongs, turn the tortilla over and, using a spatula, bend in half
to form the shell.  Cook each side of the bent tortilla until crisp,
about 30\-45 seconds per side.  Remove the shell from the oil and drain on
a newspaper-covered cookie sheet.  The cooked shells can be kept warm in the
oven at very low heat.
.SK 5
To assemble, fill each shell about 2/3's full of the meat and top with
cheese, tomato and lettuce.  We like to add extra zap with a shot of
Tabasco sauce.
.NX
Don't try to use instant onion in this recipe.
In San Antonio, people consider that the best chile 
powder is \fIGebhardt's\fR or \fIEagle Brand\fR.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
20 minutes.
.I Precision:
measure the spices.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
