.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pam McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chalupas
Message-ID: <7431@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Jan 87 04:49:45 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 62
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TEXMEX-CHALUPA V "22 Dec 83" 1987
.RZ "CHALUPAS" "Tex-Mex style tostada"
You will need to first make a batch of frijoles refritos.
This dish is more properly known in Mexico as \fItostadas\fR.
.IH "Makes 12 chalupas"
.IG "" "vegetable oil"
.IG "12" "corn tortillas"
(the thinner the better)
.IG "5\-6 cups" "frijoles refritos" "1.5 kg"
.IG "\(12 lb" "sharp cheddar cheese," "250 g"
grated
.IG "1" "large tomato,"
chopped
.IG "3 cups" "shredded lettuce" "300 g"
.PH
.SK 1
In a small
skillet, heat about
.AB "\(12 inch" "1 cm"
of vegetable oil.  Test the oil for proper temperature
by putting in a small piece of tortilla.  When the oil reaches the temperature
where it immediately begins to bubble frantically over the tortilla as soon
as it is put in the oil and the tortilla piece becomes crisp quite quickly,
you are ready to cook the chalupa shells.  This is important because there is
nothing worse than a soggy chalupa shell which results from the oil not being
hot enough.
.SK 2
Fry tortillas completely flat
on both sides until very crisp.  Drain and keep warm on a newspaper-covered
cookie sheet in a warm oven. 
.SK 3
Spread about a 
.AB "\(14-inch" "\(12-cm" -thick
layer of refried beans on each fried tortilla.  Top with a generous amount
of grated sharp Cheddar cheese and
.AB "1 Tbsp" "15 ml"
chopped onion.
.SK 4
Place assembled
chalupas on a cookie sheet and brown under broiler until cheese melts.
Watch them carefully under the broiler\(emthey can burn quite quickly.
.SK 5 
Top with shredded lettuce and tomato, and serve.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
15 minutes, plus preparation time of \fIfrijoles refritos\fR.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprhensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
