.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: pam@cepu (Pam McGarvey)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Frijoles en olla
Message-ID: <7427@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 9 Jan 87 04:47:40 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
Lines: 55
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TEXMEX-BEANS V "22 Dec 83" 1987
.RZ "FRIJOLES EN OLLA" "Tex-Mex style pinto beans."
This is known in Mexico as ``frijoles en olla''\(embeans in the pot.
This is the basis for refried beans (\fIfrijoles refrito\fR),
but we also like it as well as a side dish.
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "1 lb" "dried pinto beans" "500 g"
.IG "1" "large onion,"
quartered
.IG "3\-4" "bacon slices"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "salt" "15 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Pick through the dried pinto beans to remove small rocks (processors never
seem to get rid of all of them).
.SK 2
Rinse beans well several times until 
water runs clear and all grit is removed.
.SK 3
Place beans in a large pot
with enough water to reach 2/3's of the way up the pot.  Bring water
to a boil and add 1 large quartered onion and 3-4 slices of bacon.  
During the cooking process, the onion will become mush.  This and the bacon
add real flavor to the beans.  
.SK 4
Cook over low heat for 3\-4 hours until
the beans are very soft and tender.  Beans should just bubble, not boil,
during the cooking process.
.SK 5
During the first 90 minutes, stir and check
frequently.  The beans absorb a large amount of water and you will have
to add some periodically to prevent burning.
.SK 6
Add salt
during the last 30 minutes.  Finished beans should have the consistency
of bean soup\(emwhich I guess this is.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
4 hours.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Pamela McGarvey
UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Project, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
{ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
