.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: cimeti@nucsrl.UUCP (Cimet Israel)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Tortilla soup II
Message-ID: <8170@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 20 Feb 87 04:34:46 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TORTILLA-SOUP2 SP "10 Dec 86" 1987
.RZ "TORTILLA SOUP" "A soup with crispy tortillas"
This is my recipe for a soup that is very popular in Mexico.
If you have ever wondered what to do with some leftover tortillas that
are in your refrigerator, then read this recipe.
If you haven't wondered, then do it with fresh tortillas.
.IH "Serves 4"
.IG "12" "corn tortillas"
.IG "2 cups" "tomato sauce" "5 dl"
(2 standard cans)
.IG "\(14 cup" "chopped onion" "40 g"
.IG "" "chopped mozzarella cheese"
.IG "" "crushed pork rinds"
.IG "" "chopped avocado"
.IG "" "oil for frying"
.PH
.SK 1
Cut the tortillas into strips (about
.AB "1 inch" "3 cm"
wide).
.SK 2
Fry the tortillas in the oil until golden brown and crispy. Dry them
in a paper towel and add a little salt.
.SK 3
To make the soup: In a medium kettle saut\z\(aae the onions in a bit of
oil until they become translucent. Mix
.AB "2 cups" "5 dl"
of water with the tomato sauce
and bring to a boil. Set aside. Add salt and pepper to taste.
.SK 4
To serve: pour the soup into 4 soup bowls. Put some tortilla strips in
each bowl. Bring them to the table along with the cheese, pork rinds,
and avocado. Each person adds the rest to his/her soup to their taste.
.NX
You can add some tabasco sauce to the soup to make it hot or use any
cheese that will melt when added to the soup. 
.PP
Pork rinds are a typical Mexican snack that is sold in many
supermarkets in bulk or in the snack area.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy
.I Time:
10 minutes 
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
I. Arieh Cimet
Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, USA
{ihnp4,chinet}!nucsrl!cimeti
