.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: loosemor@esunix.uucp (Sandra Loosemore)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Vegetable-stuffed trout
Message-ID: <11740@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 3 Oct 87 08:05:11 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: Evans and Sutherland, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TROUT-1 M "30 Mar 87" 1987
.RZ "VEGETABLE-STUFFED TROUT" "Stuffed trout cooked in a microwave oven"
I prefer fish cooked in the microwave to ordinary baked fish, because it
doesn't get dried out.  The texture is similar to what you get when you
cook fish wrapped in aluminum foil outdoors over a wood fire.  It's also
much less work!
.IH "Serves 2"
.IG "2" "trout,"
about
.AB "\(12 pound" "250 g"
each
.IG "1 Tbsp" "margarine" "15 ml"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "lemon juice" "30 ml"
.IG "1" "green pepper"
.IG "\(12" "onion"
.IG "" "assorted seasonings"
(salt, pepper, bay leaf, basil, dried parsley, etc.)
.PH
.SK 1
Clean and scale the trout. Wash carefully.
You can leave the heads on if you like.
.SK 2
Cut up the green pepper and onion into bite-size chunks.  If you're
feeling experimental, try adding a bit of tomato (or whatever).
.SK 3
Melt the margarine in a microwavable dish big enough to accommodate the
fish.  Stir in the lemon juice.
.SK 4
Roll the fish around in the lemon-butter mixture, and sprinkle with
seasonings to taste. Add the vegetables to the dish (don't put them in the
trout yet).
.SK 5
Cover loosely to prevent spatters (a paper plate or wax paper works
fine) and microwave on high power for about 7 minutes, or until the fish is
opaque and flaky and the vegetables are tender.  Flip the fish over and
stir the vegetables once or twice during this time.  Scoop some of
the vegetables and sauce into the body cavity before serving.
.NX
This recipe is for a standard 600 to 700 watt microwave oven.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy if you know how to clean a trout.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking.
.I Precision:
No need to measure.
.WR
Sandra Loosemore
Evans & Sutherland Computer Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA
{decwrl, utah-gr!uplherc}!esunix!loosemor
