.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: milo@glacier (Milo Minderbinder)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Chocolate-covered cotton
Message-ID: <8987@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 1 Apr 87 19:51:31 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: M&M Enterprises, Palermo, Italy
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@glacier.ARPA


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TRUFFLES-MILO D "22 Feb 44" 1986
.RZ "MINDERBINDER" "Chocolate covered cotton"
This is a recipe I invented after I had cornered the cotton market and
couldn't get rid of the stuff.
.PP
While good orlon can be substituted for the cotton, the resulting product
won't have the same flavor or texture as the real thing.  Your friends will
be able to tell that you've been skimping. Egyptian cotton works best.
.IH "About fifty servings"
.IG "50" "plain cotton balls"
.PP
OR
.IG "3 by 6 feet" "cotton wool"
.IG "2 lb" "bittersweet chocolate"
[optional]
.IG "\(12 cup" "any favorite liqueur"
.PH
.SK 1
If starting from cotton wool, divide it into about 50 pieces, making sure they
are well formed, round, and the rough edges have been worked back into the
mass to make a smooth surface.
.SK 2
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler being careful not to get any water in
the chocolate.
.SK 3
In batches of about ten put the balls of cotton on a fine rack or grate.
Sprinkle with the liqueur if you're using it.  [Be careful!  Too much will
overpower the other flavors.]
.SK 4
Slowly pour enough chocolate over each ball of cotton to coat it thoroughly,
letting excess drip off.
.SK 5
Allow the chocolate coating to cool before taking the chocolate covered cotton
from the rack.
.NX
Keep stored in a closed container in a cool place away from light.
Munitions boxes work well for this.
.PP
As a special cold-weather treat, use wool instead of cotton.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
moderate.
.I Time:
2 hours.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Milo Minderbinder
M&M Enterprises
milo@glacier
