.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: martin@rlvd (Martin Prime)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Austrian truffles
Message-ID: <5989@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 17 Oct 86 03:36:26 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Rutherford Appleton Lab, Chilton, Oxfordshire, UK
Lines: 51
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE TRUFFLES-4 D "30 May 86" 1986
.RZ "CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES IV" "Very simple chocolate truffles"
I found this recipe in the flight magazine for a trip from London
to Vienna.
I think Vienna is probably the best place in the world for cakes and
sweets.
Whatever you do, never go to Vienna if you are on a diet.
This is also the only recipe I have ever collected that is in cups
rather than grams!
.IH "Makes 25\-30"
.IG "1 cup" "sugar" "190 g"
.IG "\(34 cup" "powdered chocolate" "75 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "whipping cream" "125 ml"
.IG "\(14 cup" "unsalted butter" "60 g"
.PH
.SK 1
Put all ingredients in a solid sauce-pan,
mix while bringing slowly to the boil.
.SK 2
Boil gently.
.SK 3
After two minutes you will have a wonderful icing for cakes,
and a sauce for ice cream.
.SK 4
After six minutes (or a little longer if you want your truffles
harder) take sauce-pan off heat and allow the mixture to cool
slightly.
At this point you can add dark rum or any other liqueur if you wish.
Cool in the refrigerator for about one hour.
.SK 5
Form into balls about the size of large marbles and roll them
in powdered chocolate. Cool to room temperature, or chill.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
30 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooling, 1 hour forming balls.
.I Precision:
measure the ingredients.
.WR
Martin Prime.
Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot, Oxfordshire, UK
mcvax!ukc!rlvd!martin
