.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: gkloker@utai (Geoff Loker)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Waffle ice-cream cones (pizelles)
Message-ID: <5708@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 3 Oct 86 03:31:33 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: CSRI AI, University of Toronto, Canada
Lines: 64
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE WAFFLE-CONE D "17 Jul 86" 1986
.RZ "WAFFLE CONE" "Waffle ice-cream cone, pizelles"
This recipe comes from a recent issue of \fICanadian Living\fR magazine.
Waffle cones look like round waffles shaped into a cone, and have a
wonderful taste.  (I admit it\(emI'm hooked on them.)  This recipe is
actually for a type of cookie called the pizelle, but it tastes just
like the waffle cones you can get at an ice-cream parlor.
.IH "about 20 cones"
.IG "3" "eggs"
.IG "\(34 cup" "granulated sugar" "150 g"
.IG "\(12 cup" "butter," "125 ml"
melted
.IG "2 tsp" "vanilla" "10 ml"
.IG "1\(12 cups" "flour" "150 g"
.IG "2 tsp" "baking powder" "10 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Beat the eggs and gradually beat in the sugar until the mixture is creamy.
.SK 2
Stir in the melted butter and vanilla.
.SK 3
Combine the flour and baking powder, and then add it to the mixture.  Blend
it in well.
.SK 4
Drop about
.AB "4 tsp" "20 ml"
of the batter into a heated pizelle iron, and cook both sides over
medium-high heat for about 1 minute each, or until golden brown.
.SK 5
Remove the waffle from the pizelle iron and immediately shape it into
a cone while it is still pliable.
.NX
A pizelle iron looks like a round waffle iron.  There are ``manual'' irons,
and electric ones too.  If you don't have a pizelle iron, another idea
is to use an ordinary waffle iron and have ice-cream on top of the
waffle.  Not having either a waffle iron or a pizelle iron, we tried
making these on an electric griddle, but since the batter is fairly
thick it wouldn't spread into a large enough circle to make cones
from.
.PP
When you form the cones, there will probably be a small hole in the
bottom of them that ice-cream can drip out of.  One idea for plugging
this hole is to put miniature marshmallows in the bottoms of the cones.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
5 minutes preparation, 1\-2 minutes (per cone) cooking.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Geoff Loker
Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto
{ihnp4 decwrl utzoo uw-beaver}!utcsri!utai!gkloker
gkloker.toronto@csnet-relay
