.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: cak@purdue.edu (Christopher A. Kent)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: Superior whipped cream
Message-ID: <4943@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 22 Aug 86 08:31:11 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Organization: Purdue University, W. Lafayette, Indiana
Lines: 64
Approved: reid@decwrl.UUCP


	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE WHIPPED-CREAM D "22 May 86" 1986
.RZ "SUPERIOR WHIPPING CREAM" "A simple way to make whipped cream extra yummy"
.PP
There is almost no dessert that can't be improved by adding a dollop of
whipping cream.
Unfortunately, most people seem to be 
afraid of actually whipping the cream, so they buy the
awful stuff that comes in a pressurized can, or spend
money on expensive devices to inject gas into the cream. 
(Or worse, they use Cool Whip.)
The truth is that making your own whipped cream is trivial, with
the appropriate mechanical aids.
.IH "makes about 2 cups" "makes about 500 ml"
.IG "1" "blender or food processor"
.IG "\(12 cup" "whipping cream" "125 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "vanilla sugar" "10 ml"
(or use white sugar and
.AB "\(12 tsp" "2.5 ml"
vanilla extract)
.PH
.SK 1
Shake the carton of whipping cream well, and pour it into the blender or
food processor.
.SK 2
Add the vanilla sugar (see below if you don't know what vanilla sugar is.)
.SK 3
Whip the cream in the machine. 
If it's a food processor, leave the pushing device out; if a blender,
remove the center of the lid, or just
cover the top of the jar with your hand. 
The trick is to allow lots of air into the cream.
Run the machine for no more than five seconds at a time, to avoid making
butter.
The cream is done when it holds a peak.
.NX
If you don't know what vanilla sugar is, don't panic. 
My mother makes this variation in a separate sugar container; fill the
container with sugar, add a vanilla bean, and wait. After a week or two,
the sugar will take on the vanilla flavor. Use this sugar whenever a
recipe calls for sugar and vanilla extract; just remember to keep the
container full.
.PP
If you don't have vanilla sugar around, use regular sugar and vanilla
extract for the cream.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy.
.I Time:
1 minute.
.I Precision:
no need to measure.
.WR
Chris Kent
Department of Computer Sciences, Purdue University
cak@purdue.EDU	{ihnp4,decwrl,decvax}!purdue!cak
