.ig
Path: decwrl!recipes
From: graham@murdu.oz.au (Graham Tongs)
Newsgroups: alt.gourmand
Subject: RECIPE: Ice cream Christmas pudding
Message-ID: <12212@decwrl.DEC.COM>
Date: 14 Dec 87 19:37:58 GMT
Sender: recipes@decwrl.DEC.COM
Distribution: alt
Organization: University of Melbourne, Parkville, Vic., Australia
Lines: 58
Approved: reid@decwrl.dec.com


	      Copyright (C) 1987 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.


..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE XMAS-ICECREAM D "2 Dec 87" 1987
.RZ "FROZEN CHRISTMAS PLUM PUDDING" "A southern-hemisphere Christmas plum pudding"
We here in the Southern Hemisphere have a summer Christmas
so we have adapted some of the more traditional festive fare to
local conditions.  Here is one example. It is very easy, and it
can be made up to a week ahead of using.
.IH "Serves 8\-10"
.IG "4 cups" "mixed dried fruits," "500 g"
finely chopped
.IG "1 tsp" "grated orange rind" "5 ml"
.IG "2 Tbsp" "cocoa" "30 ml"
.IG "\(12 cup" "brandy or masala" "120 ml"
.IG "2 tsp" "gelatine" "10 ml"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "boiling water" "15 ml"
.IG "1 gal." "vanilla ice cream," "2 l"
slightly softened but not melted
.PH
.SK 1
Combine fruit, spice, orange rind, cocoa and brandy in a large saucepan.
Over medium heat, bring almost to a boil, stirring occasionally.
.SK 2
Cool, stirring occasionally.
.SK 3
Mix gelatine and boiling water; simmer in a small pan for a few seconds,
until evenly melted. Blend into fruit, chill.
.SK 4
Fold the fruit into the softened ice cream, blending evenly.
.SK 5
Pack into foil lined bowl, cover with foil and freeze overnight or
longer.
.SK 6
To serve, 
unmould onto a serving plate, cut into wedges and serve with
cinnamon-flavoured whipped cream.
.NX
The original recipe called for the use of a microwave to do the heating and
cooking. This works well for melting the gelatine but is a bit of a
nuisance otherwise.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate (timing matters).
.I Time:
15 minutes preparation, overnight freezing.
.I Precision:
approximate measurement OK.
.WR
Graham Tongs
University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia
graham@murdu.oz.au
