.ig
From: reid@decwrl (Brian Reid)
Newsgroups: mod.recipes
Subject: RECIPE: amazingly good pancakes
Date: 30 Nov 85 10:37:31 GMT
Organization: Stanford University, Computer Systems Laboratory
Approved: reid@glacier.UUCP

	      Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted
provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct commercial
advantage, the USENET copyright notice and the title of the newsgroup and
its date appear, and notice is given that copying is by permission of
the USENET Community Trust or the original contributor.

..
.RH MOD.RECIPES-SOURCE YOGURT-CAKES B "18 Dec 84" 1986
.RZ "YOGURT PANCAKES" "Amazingly good baking-powder and yogurt pancakes"
Cooks like to show off by making fancy glamorous recipes to serve to their
friends by candle light. Here is a simple ordinary recipe to serve to your
family for breakfast in the morning.
.PP
I love pancakes and I make many
varieties and I am an inveterate experimenter. This recipe is the one I have
developed over the years to replace buttermilk pancakes because I never have
buttermilk on hand in the refrigerator like my grandmother did. I made this
recipe this very morning with blueberries in it. I do have yogurt in my
fridge, though, and the yogurt can substitue for the buttermilk.
.IH "Serves 4\-6"
.IG "5" "large eggs"
(or 6 medium eggs)
.IG "1\(14 cups" "milk" "300 ml"
.IG "8 oz" "plain yogurt" "125 ml"
(I use Dannon and Knudsen. Other brands might require different amounts)
.IG "\(12 cup" "vegetable oil" "125 ml"
(or less for dieters; but use at least 
.AB "2 Tbsp)" "30 ml)"
.IG "2 1/3 cups" "white flour" "235 g"
(measure carefully, after sifting)
.IG "4 tsp"  "baking powder" "20 ml"
.IG "1 Tbsp" "sugar" "15 ml"
.IG "1/2 tsp" "salt" "2.5 ml"
.PH
.SK 1
Preheat griddle and oil very very lightly.
.SK 2
Separate the eggs; beat the yolks
in a bowl big enough to hold the whole recipe.
Add the yogurt and beat
again; add the milk and oil and beat again. Rinse the eggbeater.
.SK 3
In a separate bowl, mix all the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder,
sugar, and salt). Sift together. I use a flour sifter for this, but if you
insist on measuring your flour without sifting it,
then you can try using a wire whip to blend the dry ingredients.
.SK 4
Using a clean eggbeater, beat the eggwhites until they are fluffy.
.SK 5
Dump the dry ingredient mixture
into the big bowl containing the milk mixture, stir for about 2
seconds just to get the dry ingredients under the surface of the liquid, and
then dump the beaten eggwhites into the big bowl.
.SK 6
Now beat this mixture
lightly and slowly with a fork
until it is more or less uniform. If you beat too much, or too
fast, then it will get gummy. Don't try to get rid of lumps.
.SK 7
Cook on the hot griddle.
.NX
I like to put fresh blueberries in these pancakes after I
pour them on the griddle. Make sure that your maple syrup is hot and that
your butter is soft. You can heat syrup in the microwave or you can heat it
by sticking the syrup jar in a pan of boiling water. 
.PP
This same recipe also makes really good waffles if you reduce the milk to 
.AB "1 cup" "240 ml" ","
but if you are going to make waffles, you shouldn't cut back on the oil. If
you are dieting, stick to pancakes.
.SH RATING
.I Difficulty:
easy to moderate.
.I Time:
10 minutes plus cooking time.
.I Precision:
measure carefully.
.WR
Brian Reid
DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto CA
reid@decwrl.DEC.COM	-or-	{decvax,ucbvax,ihnp4,sun}!decwrl!reid
